<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="acknowledgements">
<h1 class="acknowledgements-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23936a" id="Ref_23936"><span>Acknowledgments</span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>When you’re an aspiring author you don’t (or you shouldn’t, anyway) write with the absolute certainty that your book will be published. It helps, however, to be surrounded by people who are absolutely certain you will be. As it turns out, I was the very last person to know my wildest dream would eventually come true.</span></p>
<p><span>The book that became</span> <em>Kings of the Wyld</em><span> benefited from a great many patient and enthusiastic beta-readers. Chief among these was Devon Pipars, who read it three chapters at a time over the course of a year and always clamoured for more, and Eugene Vassilev, who read it as many times as I asked him to and was as critical and ebullient a friend as an author could ask for.</span></p>
<p><span>I would also like to thank those with whom I shared the journey of writing my first, flawed attempt at a fantasy novel: Hollis Steele, Deyna Dodds, and Kaili Grant were champions of a book that might never see the light of day. Still, I am so very grateful.</span></p>
<p><span>Also deserving of gratitude is Bryan Cheyne, who has been a friend, a writing confidant, and a fellow fanboy of You-Know-Who for longer than either of us would care to admit. I sincerely hope to find his name a few spines to the left in a bookstore someday.</span></p>
<p><span>I should also give thanks to Richard Anderson for a beautiful cover, Kristine Cofsky for an excellent photo, Shannon Boyd for reading it aloud while I took notes and laughed at my own jokes, and Natasha McLeod, who listened patiently to every idea that made it into the book and several thousand more that did not. Because of her I emerged from this process as a (relatively) functioning human instead of a shambling, bleary-eyed troglodyte.</span></p>
<p><span>I owe a huge debt to Sebastien DeCastell, who was accosted at a restaurant one night by a fan and aspiring writer who also happened to be his waiter. Sebastien was gracious enough to answer my questions on the publishing process and eventually commend me to his agent. I owe him a copy of this book, and so much more.</span></p>
<p><span>The process of getting an agent can be a defeating, soul-crushing slog: You leap for a precipice, and more often than not you are dashed to pieces on the rocks below. I will be forever indebted to Heather Adams, who caught me, pulled me up, and continues to guide me toward ever more lofty heights.</span></p>
<p><span>Which brings me to my editor at Orbit, Lindsey Freakin’ Hall: Editor Extraordinaire and righteous champion of this book from day one. Her support has been invaluable, her wisdom instrumental, and her enthusiasm rivalled only by my mom’s. I am so extremely fortunate that in pursuit of our own dreams we’ve found ourselves side by side on a road that I hope goes on for a long, long while.</span></p>
<p><span>Lastly, I must thank my taller, broader little brother, Tyler. You have played many roles for me, Ty: the Robin to my Batman, the Man-At-Arms to my He-Man, the Luigi to my Mario. And finally, if you would indulge me once more, the Clay Cooper to my Gabriel. You’re a</span> <em>good</em><span> man, Tyler Eames. And when all is said and done, I’d say it’s fairly obvious which of us is the real hero.</span></p>
<p/>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>