<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="appendix003">
<h1 class="appendix-title1"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23885a" id="Ref_23885"><span>Author Interview</span></a></h1>
<p class="question-first"><span><em>When did you first start writing?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>In high school, while I was undoubtedly supposed to be doing something else. When I eventually got busted, my teacher sent it to a family friend of his (Ed Greenwood, the creator of Forgotten Realms) who graciously read it and replied that I “had the fire of a good storyteller.” Encouraging as that was, I sort of shelved writing (pun intended) during college, then decided after that to try my hand at it again.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><span><em>Who are some of your biggest influences?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>First and foremost, Guy Gavriel Kay. Reading him was what made me decide to take writing seriously, in hope of creating something that might affect someone the way his work affected me. More recently, Scott Lynch and Joe Abercrombie (for me, at least) sort of kicked open the door for infusing fast-paced, dramatic stories with a sense of humor.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><span><em>Where did the idea for</em></span> <strong>Kings of the Wyld</strong><span> <em>come from?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>It all began when I was struck by lightning … Kidding, of course. In fact I can’t remember what sparked it initially, only that I thought,</span> <em>How cool would it be to read a book in which mercenary bands acted (and were treated like) rock stars?</em><span> Also, there’s that saying floating around and that goes something like, “Write the kind of book you’d most like to read.” Well, this is it.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><strong>Blackheart</strong><span> <em>is such a cool weapon. What made you choose a shield as your hero’s foremost weapon?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>To begin with, the weapons I assigned to each of the main</span> <span>characters were due to their assigned role in a metaphorical</span><span> rock band—the most obvious being Matrick wielding a pair of “drumstick” knives and Ganelon using an axe, which is, of course, slang for “guitar.” Clay was envisioned as the guy on bass whose name everyone forgets but without whom the song just doesn’t feel right. The shield, originally, was a way of keeping him passive. As he developed, however, it became a huge part of his persona. Though he battles a violent nature, Clay is, at heart, a protector—someone who, due to certain events in his past, will never again be a spectator when the lives of those he loves are at stake.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><span><em>The pursuit of glory is a major theme in</em></span> <strong>Kings of the Wyld</strong><span><em>—what drew you to focus on that?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>That was inspired by—surprise!—music. How many of us have heard someone say that the music of today pales in comparison to what came before? That phrase has always (and will always) make old people nod and young people snort with derision. I tried to apply that sentiment to the setting of</span> <em>Kings</em><span>, wherein the mercenary bands of today try so very hard to outshine a past that feels, even to them, somehow more authentic.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><span><em>This book goes from breaking your heart to being laugh-out-loud hilarious, sometimes within a single page. How did you make sure the balance was right between these two elements of the story?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>The short answer? I listened to the sound advice of my agent and my editor, both of whom helped me find that sweet spot. The longer one? I set out to write a funny book. A ridiculous book. A book that didn’t take itself too seriously (hence the goblins, the erectile dysfunction potions, and the fact that my antagonist has bunny ears). But the characters just … got away from me. I blame Clay Cooper.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><strong>Kings of the Wyld</strong><span> <em>has a phenomenal cast of characters. If you had to pick one, who would you say is your favourite? Which character was the most difficult to write?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer"><span>First of all, thanks for saying so. Favourite? Tough call. Moog makes me laugh, and Larkspur is pretty badass, but I’ve got to say Clay Cooper. He’s honest, loyal, more clever than he gives himself credit for, and just so doggedly good. I mean, he’d die for you. Yes, you. And he barely evens knows you!</span></p>
<p class="answer-first1"><span>Most difficult? Probably Lastleaf. Though he’s technically the bad guy, I find myself empathizing with him a lot—to the point that if our heroes failed and everything went his way it might not be such a bad thing after all. Making him suitably evil while giving him a perspective that a reader might relate to was tricky. Did I succeed? My mom certainly thinks so!</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><strong>Kings of the Wyld</strong><span> <em>is the first book of the Band series. What’s in store for us in future books?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>The second book explores a bit more of the wider world we barely glimpse in the first, and features the next generation of mercenary bands, who are desperate for the chance to outshine their glorious predecessors. Unfortunately for them, they get what they ask for.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><span><em>If you could spend an afternoon with one of your characters, which would it be and what would you do?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>Pete—the guy at the bar in the Riot House. We’d sip our beers and talk about life, love, and the little things.</span></p>
<p class="question-first"><span><em>Lastly, we have to ask: If you could have any superpower, what would it be?</em></span></p>
<p class="answer-first"><span>Besides perfect spelling? Hmm … I’d like to be able to stop time, because then I could finally read every book, watch every film, play every video game, and spend as much time as I want with loved ones without that pesky nuisance known as “dying of old age” rearing its ugly head. Wouldn’t that be nice?</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>