<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter043">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23849a" id="Ref_23849"><span>Chapter Forty-three</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23849a"><span><em>The Cold Road</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>Clay figured that whoever gave the Cold Road its name must have had a particularly sinister sense of humor. That, or they’d been stark raving mad, which would explain why they were taking the Cold Road in the first place. It was cold, sure, but it was most certainly</span> <em>not</em><span> a road. In fact, it was anything</span> <em>but</em><span> a road.</span></p>
<p><span>It began as a steep slope of crumbling shale that slipped and slid beneath your boots and just fucking</span> <em>dared</em><span> you to try to use your hands to help climb. By the time he reached the top Clay’s fingers were sliced near to ribbons. Matrick was limping, having turned an ankle partway up. He would have fallen if not for Ganelon, who’d held him by the collar until the old king found his feet.</span></p>
<p><span>When they topped the rise Matrick straightened his vest and smoothed his hair. “Thanks,” he said. “Hey, how’d you fare on the Tetrea board last night?”</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon shot him a questioning glare.</span></p>
<p><span>“Did you win any?” Matrick asked without any apparent guile.</span></p>
<p><span>Satisfied, Ganelon answered. “All of them.”</span></p>
<p><span>The king blinked. “What?”</span></p>
<p><span>But the southerner was already turning. In a gesture of magnanimity as rare as, well, an owlbear itself, he was carrying Gabe’s old backpack, sparing Moog the burden of the orphaned cubs. The pair had grown mercifully quiet after the wizard fed them breakfast, though it still gave Clay a chill to recall Moog spilling porridge from his own mouth into their open beaks.</span></p>
<p><span>The next leg of the Cold Road was a climbing track that hugged the face of the mountain. Clay spotted a cluster of scraggly-looking goats perched on the incline above. One of them, its beard so long it reached the ground even when it raised its head, bleated to alert the others.</span> <em>Look at these assholes,</em><span> Clay imagined it saying.</span></p>
<p><span>Several times their path was blocked by landslides, forcing them to stop and clear the way with their hands—a task</span> <span>for which the ettin was especially well suited. Gregor, with a sly</span><span> wink for the others, sold it to Dane as “digging for treasure,” and though each time the search proved fruitless, Dane’s optimism remained untarnished.</span></p>
<p><span>“I hope we find gold,” he exclaimed. “Or silver. Which is prettier, Gregor?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, they’re both pretty,” said his brother. “But what I really hope we find is duramantium, Emperor of Metals!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Durmadantum!” Dane’s mouth mangled the word, but his shattered smile bloomed as he said it. “The Emperor of Metals!”</span></p>
<p><span>They pressed on, and all at once rounded a corner into a blistering storm. Gabriel called a brief rest while Moog plumbed the depths of his bag for the cloaks and heavy furs that he and Kit had been tasked with buying back in Conthas. The wizard had put some thought into it, apparently. He presented Ganelon with a great black boar skin with pointed tusks sewed up the spine, and Matrick with a hooded fox-fur cloak complete with ears and a snout. “It’s fake,” Moog admitted. “And a bit tacky. And I’m fairly certain it was tailored to fit a woman.”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick smirked beneath the hood. “I like it.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe’s cloak practically had a whole white wolf slung across the shoulders, and Moog himself doffed a heavy sheepskin coat matched by an appropriately ridiculous fur hat.</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard handed Clay a shaggy brown bearskin before looking apologetically at Sabbatha. “I’m sorry. I didn’t know we’d have company.”</span></p>
<p><span>Before Clay could offer up the bearskin she waved him off, enshrouding herself in a cloak of sleek blue-black plumage.</span></p>
<p><span>“How’s the wing?” Clay ventured.</span></p>
<p><span>“Better,” she answered curtly, and stalked off.</span></p>
<p><span>“Excellent,” he muttered at her back. “Good talk.” She and Ganelon together was starting to make a lot more sense to him now.</span></p>
<p><span>When they set out again Gabriel dropped back to fall in step beside Clay, who was bringing up the rear.</span></p>
<p><span>“Hanging in there?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“Hanging in there,” Clay answered, his breath pluming before the chill wind could snatch it away.</span></p>
<p><span>“Listen, I just … wanted to say thank you.”</span></p>
<p><span>“For what?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe was about to reply but laughed instead. Ahead of them, Moog glanced back and frowned, as though dismayed at having missed out on a joke. “Where do I begin?” Gabriel wondered aloud. “You came after me back in Coverdale. You pulled me off my knees that first night at Kal’s place, and again outside Brycliffe. You fought a chimera for me.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Got my ass kicked by one, you mean,” Clay murmured.</span></p>
<p><span>A chuckle, puffing white in the freezing air. “Yeah, well, we all did.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Except Ganelon.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Except Ganelon,” Gabe conceded. “Ah, but you did throw my ex-wife’s new husband off a skyship …”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shrugged beneath the heavy mantle of his bearskin cloak. “That’s what friends are for, right?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Right.” Another chuckle from Gabriel. He moved a step closer, so their shoulders brushed as they plodded side by side and he could speak without contending against the wind. “I know you didn’t want any part of this, Clay. You had a good thing going back home. When I asked you to come, you had a thousand reasons to say no.”</span></p>
<p><em>Just two,</em><span> thought Clay, though he didn’t bother pointing that out.</span></p>
<p><span>His friend flashed him a tight grin. “But you came anyway. You’re here, beside me. And because of you the five of us are together again. Because of you I have a chance, however impossible it might seem, of getting my daughter back. Yesterday …” Gabriel shook his head, glanced down at his trudging boots. “The others would never have taken the Cold Road if it wasn’t for you. We’d be skulking through the Defile right now, or knee-deep in the Nightstream, weeks away from reaching Castia.”</span></p>
<p><span>“They would have followed you,” Clay said with a sinner’s conviction. “They’ve followed you this far.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel looked over, squinting against the snow-flecked gale. “Followed</span> <em>me</em><span>? Gods, you really believe that, don’t you?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Well, yeah.” Clay was trying to keep an eye on the treacherous footing below. The mountain sloped steeply on their left; a single misstep could lead to a dangerously unchecked slide. “You’re the leader,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’m the frontman,” Gabe corrected.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had a sudden recollection of huddling around a table in Conthas—what, thirty years ago?—with Gabriel, Matrick, and Kallorek, dreaming of glory and doling out roles in an as-yet-unnamed band. Gabriel was the face, Matty the hands. Clay had been the muscle for roughly half an hour, before Ganelon showed up. “Frontman, leader … same thing,” Clay said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Is it?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay opened his mouth, closed it, spent a moment considering whether or not what he was about to say made sense before replying, rather ineloquently, “Yeah?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Say we rescue Rose,” proposed Gabriel, and already Clay was beginning to feel like an old, blind dog limping toward a loving hug, a merciful axe, and a shallow grave. Gabe had a point to make, but he was taking the scenic route. “Say we make it safe and sound back to Grandual, and afterward I ask the boys—Moog, Matty, Ganelon—to keep the band going. Maybe take on a few smaller gigs, or hit the arena circuit to warm up first, and then do a proper tour of the Wyld, or the Wastes up north.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Good luck with that,” said Clay, though he knew Gabe wasn’t being serious. At least Clay didn’t</span> <em>think</em><span> he was being serious. It was hard to tell sometimes, with Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“They wouldn’t come,” Gabe said. “Of course they wouldn’t. And after all this is done I doubt they’d follow me to an outhouse if they had to shit. But if</span> <em>you</em><span> asked them? If Clay Cooper walked alone into the Heartwyld, or the Brumal Wastes, or the Frost Mother’s Hell itself … they would follow you. You know they would. And so would I.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had never considered himself Saga’s leader, and he certainly didn’t now, regardless of what Gabriel said. For the entirety of his mercenary career he had gone where Gabe said they were going, killed what Gabe said needed killing, spent whatever coin Gabe tossed his way, and generally drifted, leaflike and listless, on the shifting current of Gabriel’s bluster.</span></p>
<p><span>Sure, from time to time he’d weighed in on some moral quandary confounding his bandmates, and every so often he’d taken the first step down a hard road when no one else seemed keen on doing so. There were even, admittedly, occasions on which he’d gone ahead and killed who needed killing without asking for Gabriel’s permission. Kallorek, for instance.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay was still mulling over Gabriel’s words a while later when their progress was once again impeded by fallen rock. This time, however, Dane actually did discover a treasure among the stones. “Durmadantum!” he declared, brandishing the ice-encased skull of some hapless adventurer.</span></p>
<p><span>Gregor made the best of it. “Indeed it is, brother! Well done. Let’s take a closer look at it later.” He took the skull from Dane and handed it to Gabriel, who handed it to Moog, who tossed it into the snow behind them.</span></p>
<p><span>The way grew more treacherous still. The path was sloped and broken, slippery with snow and ice. The wind got mean, tugging and prodding like a bully urging you to jump or be called a coward. The peak of Deliverance loomed into cloud on their right. On their left was the canyon known as the Defile. It cut a jagged, mazelike path from one side of the range to the other, and Clay, shivering despite the heavy bearskin, was beginning to wish he’d sided with Matrick before they started the climb. It would be warm down there, and the likelihood of falling to your death was comparatively slim.</span></p>
<p><em>Remember the giants</em><span>, he told himself.</span> <em>Giants are bad.</em><span> The thought managed to console him somewhat. Enough to keep his legs moving, anyway.</span></p>
<p><span>But then, through the curtain of swirling snow, he saw it: a span of crystalline ice arcing from one side of the gorge to the other. The last, lethal stretch of the Cold Road.</span></p>
<p><span>And quite suddenly giants didn’t seem so bad.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>The rasks hit them before they reached the bridge.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay was taking a turn at the front, doing his best to keep his eyes from wandering over the sheer drop on his left, when one of the creatures came skidding and shrieking down the steep cliff face on their right. He rushed to meet it, hoping to engage it as far from the chasm’s edge as possible, and pinned it against the stone while the others hurried past.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had never gotten a good look at a rask up close, and now that one was howling into his face he couldn’t have said he was grateful for the opportunity. It was roughly the size of Clay himself, with bedraggled blue-green hair that clung like wet seaweed to its scrawny shoulders. The thing’s eyes were pale as milk, its breath an unsettling mix of blood and peppermint. Its nose was long, sharp as an icicle, and pointed dangerously at his face. Clay had its long arms pinned below his, and he could feel its claws scratching against his chain shirt, without which he would have been disemboweled.</span></p>
<p><span>He pushed</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>’s rim into the monster’s neck and heard it snap, but still the thing fought him. Clay called out to the wizard as he went by. “Hey, how do I kill it?”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog spun, one hand pushing his oversized fur hat from his eyes. “Fuck if I know!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Moog, I’m serious!”</span></p>
<p><span>“So am I! Fire would do it, but good luck getting—oh, wait!” The wizard went to his knees, frantically plumbing his bottomless bag. He came up clutching a coil of rope, which didn’t explain why he was grinning as though he’d produced something useful, until Clay realized that the rope wasn’t rope. It was firewire.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay caught movement to his right. Another rask dropped from the ridge above and was loping toward them. “Moog, hurry,” he growled.</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard twisted a short length of firewire from the rest. He darted up beside Clay and touched the two ends together. There was a hiss, and Moog fed the suddenly glowing loop to the monster’s mouth. The pitch of its scream shifted from rage to pain; its head melted like a candle set alight with dragonfire.</span></p>
<p><em>Well, there’s one way to kill them</em><span>, Clay thought.</span></p>
<p><span>He danced back as the firewire, now a circle of molten gold, landed on the ground near his feet, then turned as the second rask reached him, a flurry of grasping talons and gnashing teeth. Clay sidestepped, set his shoulder into</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>, and knocked the creature off the path and into the abyss below.</span></p>
<p><span>He and Moog hurried after the others. They entered a long corridor that Clay remembered as having been more a tunnel and less a terrace, but it had been winter when they’d</span> <span>been here last. Now rasks clambered in from above, slipping like thieves through gaps in the ice. More of the creatures were blocking the way ahead. He saw Gabriel hack through them without slowing. Matrick skulked in his wake, plunging knives into those still thrashing, while Ganelon and Sabbatha dealt with any who came in from outside. Between his axe and her scythe, Clay couldn’t imagine a more dangerous place in all the world than within the deadly circle of their reach.</span></p>
<p><span>A snarl tore the air to his left. Clay whirled as a rask came at him feetfirst. He brought his shield up an instant too late. The thing’s talons raked across his face. Pain flared, then fled, chased off by terror and raw adrenaline. Blood ran into his eyes, gummed in his ice-tipped lashes when he tried to blink, and fouled his sight. Clay caught a glimpse of the rask attacking and ducked behind his shield. He was knocked backward, and his head cracked hard against the cold stone wall.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay swiped the blood from his eyes, but his vision was still blurred. There were four rasks, then twelve, then one again, lunging toward him with talons that snapped like shears.</span></p>
<p><span>Something</span> <em>bright</em><span> spun past. The rask’s head rolled into Clay’s lap. Its body slumped like a supplicant before him, and he saw that its neck had been neatly cauterized. A few feet to his left another disc of glowing firewire steamed in the snow.</span></p>
<p><span>“Did you see that throw?” Moog mimicked what looked to Clay like an old man tossing horseshoes with his grandchildren. When the wizard looked over, though, his grin vanished. “Sweet Maiden’s Mercy, are you okay?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay climbed to his feet. His ears were ringing, and he could feel the wind probing the wounds on his face with frigid fingers. “Sure, why?”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog frowned as he assessed whatever damage the rask’s talons had done to Clay’s face. “No reason. We should hurry.”</span></p>
<p><span>They ran after the others, emerging from the tunnel mouth onto a precipice of bare stone. The storm had died down, but flecks of snow still rode the breeze, spinning like spring blossoms in the air.</span></p>
<p><span>The bridge was directly ahead, a depressingly vivid manifestation of everything Clay feared it would be. Broad at the base, it tapered at its highest point to a strip so thin they would need to cross in single file. The mountain opposite, whose name Clay hadn’t bothered to ask, was wreathed in white mist.</span></p>
<p><span>“Shall I remind you this was your idea?” Moog asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’d rather you didn’t,” said Clay, as they caught up with the others.</span></p>
<p><span>Kit started up it first, creeping despite the fact that a fall from several thousand feet would be little more than an inconvenience. Gabe and Ganelon put their backs to the bridge, ready to hold off the pursuing rasks.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel waved behind him. “Everyone over. Quick but careful. Very careful,” he added, looking up at Gregor and Dane.</span></p>
<p><span>Gregor nodded gravely. Dane giggled, likely having been convinced they were playing some childish game. “I’ll race you, Gregor!” he shouted.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’ll race you both,” said Matrick, jogging toward the summit. Moog and Sabbatha started up after them, making as much haste as they could before the bridge narrowed dangerously and forced them to consider every step.</span></p>
<p><span>“Clay—” Gabe started. “Good gods, your face!”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay touched two fingers to the gash across his nose. It hurt, and they came away bloody. “Is it bad?”</span></p>
<p><span>Before Gabe could answer Ganelon flexed his fingers on the haft of his axe. “Here they come.”</span></p>
<p><span>The rasks exploded from the tunnel mouth, yelping and screaming, dismayed that most of their quarry was getting away, giddy that three were still within reach.</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon killed the first with a sideways chop. Gabe stepped in with</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>—the sharp scent of lilacs filled the air—and two more fell. Clay was ready at his shoulder. A thrust from</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> snapped the fingers of a grasping hand, a blow from his hammer cracked the skull above it. Gabriel’s blue-green blade flickered out to take a rask’s head off before Ganelon moved in again. He impaled one, kicked a second, punched a third in the face with a dragonscale gauntlet.</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> cut a rask into halves, and when another lunged at Gabe he dodged, tripping it toward Clay with an outstretched boot. Clay dropped, ducking beneath his shield before the thing landed on him, and then, every muscle in his back protesting, he stood and flung the creature off the precipice behind him. The look of grudging respect he earned from Ganelon made the pain worthwhile—for the moment, anyhow.</span></p>
<p><em>We will speak of this later</em><span>, his lower back promised.</span> <em>Oh yes we will.</em></p>
<p><span>The next clutch of rasks were notably less enthusiastic about rushing the bridge, their hunger tempered by the only instinct that mattered more: self-preservation.</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon turned on them. “You two go. I’ll hold them here.”</span></p>
<p><span>From anyone else those words would seem loaded with the dreadful freight of self-sacrifice. From Ganelon they were simply a statement of fact. He might have said</span> <em>I’ll put the kettle on</em><span> with the same casual certainty.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe hesitated, torn between wrath and reason, then finally nodded. He and Clay started up the bridge, legs pumping, breath gusting white from their mouths. Matrick was over the arch and had turned to wait for Gregor and Dane, who were shuffling carefully along the thinnest stretch of ice. Clay might have prayed it didn’t break, but he reckoned the gods were already watching and had placed bets on who would fall first. Safe money was on the eight-hundred-pound ettin.</span></p>
<p><span>Something lunged from the mist behind Matrick, a rask much bigger than any of those they’d faced thus far. A chieftain, Clay supposed, noting the loop of broken skulls slung around its neck. Its hair was spiked with frost, shorn to a strip down the centre of its head. It was on Matrick in an instant, tackling him and pinning him to the ice with a strangling claw. It raised the other to strike—talons splayed like a fan of knives—and Clay heard Kit’s warning words echo in his mind.</span></p>
<p><em>The Cold Road takes its toll. Always.</em></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>