<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter025">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23795a" id="Ref_23795"><span>Chapter Twenty-five</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23795a"><span><em>Treasures of Varying Usefulness</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>They walk five abreast up the eastern slope of the hill upon which Kallorek has constructed his lavish citadel. The morning sun hurls their shadows out before them, hulking spectres of the men to whom they belong, or rather—as the guards who watch them approach will later reflect—harbingers of their dark intent, reaching like fingers that would soon become a fist.</span></p>
<p><span>Among them is a renegade king, he who sired five royal heirs without ever unzipping his pants. A man to whom time</span> <span>has imparted great wisdom and an even greater waistline,</span> <span>whose thoughtless courage is rivalled only by his unquenchable thirst.</span></p>
<p><span>At his shoulder walks a sorcerer, a cosmic conversationalist. Enemy of the incurable rot, absent chairman of combustive sciences at the university in Oddsford, and the only living soul above the age of eight to believe in owlbears.</span></p>
<p><span>Look here at a warrior born, a scion of power and poverty whose purpose is manifold: to shatter shackles, to murder monarchs, and to demonstrate that even the forces of good must sometimes enlist the service of big, bad motherfuckers. His is an ancient soul destined to die young.</span></p>
<p><span>And now comes the quiet one, the gentle giant, he who fights his battles with a shield. Stout as the tree that counts its age in aeons, constant as the star that marks true north and shines most brightly on the darkest nights.</span></p>
<p><span>A step ahead of these four: our hero. He is the candle burnt down to the stump, the cutting blade grown dull with overuse. But see now the spark in his stride. Behold the glint of steel in his gaze. Who dares to stand between a man such as this and that which he holds dear? He will kill, if he must, to protect it. He will die, if that is what it takes.</span></p>
<p><span>“Go get the boss,” says one guardsman to another. “This bunch looks like trouble.”</span></p>
<p><span>And they do. They</span> <em>do</em><span> look like trouble, at least until the wizard trips on the hem of his robe. He stumbles, cursing, and fouls the steps of the others as he falls face-first onto the mud-slick hillside.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>They broke a great deal of furniture and several arms as they fought their way through Kallorek’s compound. Moog lobbed what looked like avocados stuffed with wicker fuses into adjacent rooms. The volatile fruit burst into clouds of yellow smoke that stung the eyes and burnt the throat, flushing out cowering servants and guards they might have missed along the way. Clay weathered a few blows with his shield, and Ganelon hit a man so hard with the flat of his axe the poor fellow sailed ten yards before crashing through a glass window. Gabe prowled ahead with an anxious single-mindedness, like a man wandering a brothel in search of his missing daughter.</span></p>
<p><span>They came across Kallorek lounging in the shallow end of his pond. Two naked girls scampered out the opposite door. The booker had barely pulled a robe over his bulk before Gabriel’s mailed fist hit him squarely in the nose and sent him sprawling on the water-slick tiles.</span></p>
<p><span>“Bring him,” Gabe said without slowing. Ganelon snatched the dazed booker by the collar and dragged him along.</span></p>
<p><span>In the chapel hall where Kallorek hoarded his assortment of illustrious artifacts, Gabriel made straight for the sword-bearing statue of the Autumn Son. He stopped short of it by fifteen yards and held his waiting palm toward Moog. The wizard rummaged briefly in his bottomless bag before drawing out what looked like a short length of rope dipped in tar.</span></p>
<p><span>“Is that—” Clay began.</span></p>
<p><span>“Firewire, yes,” confirmed Moog. He offered it to Gabriel as though he were handling a live viper. “Be very careful,” he warned.</span></p>
<p><em>Moog advising someone else on the cautious use of alchemy,</em><span> thought Clay.</span> <em>Gods of Grandual, we</em><span> have</span> <em>gotten old.</em></p>
<p><span>Gabe approached the statue. Lamplight gleamed on the plates of his armour, so that he seemed to radiate softly as he climbed the steps of the dais. He knelt at its feet, and with slow care he looped the corrosive strand around one of the statue’s legs.</span></p>
<p><span>“Stand back,” he said over his shoulder, and then touched the frayed ends of the firewire together. They fused with a hiss and the cord turned molten red, constricting as the fibres hardened into something like steel. The statue’s leg buckled, and an instant later the whole thing toppled forward, smashing itself to pieces. The statue’s head, which had been altered to resemble Kallorek’s orcish features, rolled to a stop at Ganelon’s feet.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel stepped lightly down the dais steps, picking his way through the rubble until he found what he was looking for. He pried</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> from the shattered stone grip, and when he stood he was grinning like a boy.</span></p>
<p><span>The sword was double-edged, near as long as Gabe was tall. It had belonged to Vespian, the druin Archon, and was widely considered the most sacred (and second most dangerous) relic of the Old Dominion. The blade was silver-green, and in its surface one could sometimes glimpse a swathe of twilit sky, or the colossal trees of some primordial forest, as though the sword itself were a window to another, older age.</span></p>
<p><span>Perhaps the most unusual aspect of</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>, however, was its smell. Most swords smelled like iron, or oil, or else they didn’t smell at all, but</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> wafted like a spring breeze, rife with the scent of flowering lilacs and fresh green grass.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel stood with his eyes closed amidst a veil of rising dust. He whispered something too quiet to hear, and then opened his eyes and looked to Kallorek. “The scabbard. Where is it?”</span></p>
<p><span>The booker coughed and spat at his feet in answer.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe spared a glance for Ganelon, and the warrior introduced the booker’s face to his steel-shod boot.</span></p>
<p><span>“Over there!” Kallorek blurted, pointing toward one corner of the chapel hall. “There’s a chest over there somewhere. Take the scabbard and get the fuck out of my house.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel still wore his wide smile. “Oh, I’ll take the scabbard. And we’ll be out of your—” his eyes flitted to Kallorek’s greasy comb-over “—hair soon enough. Thing is, though, Kal—the Wyld’s a dangerous place. I think it’s probably best we grab a few more things while we’re here, don’t you?”</span></p>
<p><span>The booker looked as if he would spit again, or scream, or lunge at Gabriel and wring his throat, but then he flinched as his limited imagination reminded him what Ganelon’s boot tasted like. He nodded grudgingly and growled, “Sure. Of course. Take whatever you’d like.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe gave Kallorek’s jowls a friendly slap. He straightened, took a breath, and looked around at his bandmates like a man awakened from a restful sleep. “Gear up, boys. If we’re gonna play heroes we might as well dress the part.”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog went to pick through the wreckage of the broken bookcase, while Matrick snatched a pair of luxurious leather boots off a nearby table. Ganelon crossed to where a set of wrought-iron bracers glimmered beneath a glass casement. He used his bare hand to smash the glass and lift them clear.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay wandered idly, perusing a wicked-looking scimitar</span> <span>that he could have sworn whispered his name as he drew close,</span> <span>and a hammer whose ivory-bound haft was startlingly cold to the touch. He saw the imposing helm of Liac the Arachnian that Kallorek had shown them during their previous visit, and beneath it the suit of crimson mail called the</span> <em>Warskin</em><span>, through which, the booker had alleged, no sword or spear could pass.</span></p>
<p><em>A fine quality in any piece of armour</em><span>, Clay reckoned, and so he took it.</span></p>
<p><span>It fit as though it were made for him. There was a silk undercoat so the links wouldn’t chafe, and segmented steel bands above and below each elbow to allow ease of movement. There were pauldrons on either shoulder that flared into a high-collared guard to protect his throat. The coat itself draped almost to his knees, and it was belted at the waist by a metal band whose opposing ends seemed drawn together by some intangible magic.</span></p>
<p><span>“Oooh, magnets,” said Moog, who noticed Clay clasping and unclasping the belt in obvious wonder.</span></p>
<p><span>“Magnets?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard got that look in his eye, a teacher relishing in the ignorance of a student. “It’s actually quite fascinating …” he began.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’m sure it is,” murmured Clay, already walking away. He picked up the frigid hammer as he went, deciding on a whim to call it</span> <em>Wraith</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>On his way back toward Gabriel he saw the sarcophagus over which Gabe and Kallorek had tripped during their previous visit. It was empty, its heavy lid ajar, and Clay wondered briefly what manner of ghastly horror they’d unleashed upon the world.</span></p>
<p><span>The rest of the band were busy equipping themselves as well. Ganelon found a suit of black dragonscale to match his shiny new gauntlets, while Matrick bore a gnarled horn at his hip. When he saw Clay looking he said, “Watch this,” and blew briefly in the mouthpiece. There was no discernible sound, but as he did so a small flurry of winged insects swarmed out the other end.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay brushed a wasp away from his eyes. “So … it’s a horn that vomits bees?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Isn’t it great?” asked Matrick.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay frowned, thoroughly disgusted. “Not really, no.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I win! I win!” Moog hurried between two armour-draped mannequins. He knocked one over in his haste and had actually turned to apologize before thinking better of it and moving on. He was wearing the sort of wide-brimmed, pointy hat that wizards wore all the time in storybooks and practically never in real life, probably because it looked ridiculous.</span></p>
<p><span>“Yep, you win,” Matrick agreed. “You look the stupidest.”</span></p>
<p><span>“That’s not a word,” Moog informed him. “But watch!” He pulled off the hat and plunged his arm in to the elbow. “It’s like my bag, but different. There’s an enchantment inside! You can’t put things in it, only take them out. But not just anything—oh, yes, here we are.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay looked on in disbelief as the wizard withdrew a chicken from the confines of the hat—not alive, but plucked and roasted, glazed until the skin was brown and crisp. The smell alone set his mouth watering. “How …?”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog tossed the chicken aside and Matrick lunged for it, using his uninjured arm to brace it against his chest. “What the …” he started, but then Moog reached into his hat again and pulled out another, which he tossed to Clay, and then another. He threw this one to Ganelon, but the warrior sidestepped it, eyeing it warily where it lay on the ground.</span></p>
<p><span>“Chicken from a hat,” he muttered in distaste.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s perfectly fine,” Moog assured him. “But anyway, there’s more.” He continued plucking foodstuffs out of thin air: loaves of bread, ears of corn, ripened tomatoes, pastries stuffed with fruit and topped with sweet-smelling icing.</span></p>
<p><span>By now Matrick’s arms were overflowing. “Now</span> <em>this</em><span>,” he told Clay, “is better than a horn that vomits bees.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shrugged. On that, at least, they could agree.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>