<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter013">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23759a" id="Ref_23759"><span>Chapter Thirteen</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23759a"><span><em>The Duke of Endland</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>Clay had once tried describing to his wife the difference between a wyvern and a dragon. They were each vaguely reptilian, he’d admitted, and covered with metallic scales. They shared commonalities like razor-sharp fangs and claws that could punch through an iron breastplate as though it were made of eggshell. They both had leathery wings and sinuous necks, and were equally capable of shearing a man in half with a snap of the tail. Ginny had stopped him there to point out what a piss-poor job he was doing of differentiating the two, whereupon Clay was forced to concede that there was essentially no difference between them whatsoever.</span></p>
<p><span>Although now, as a wyvern touched down on the hillside before him, a few notable distinctions sprung to mind. For starters, a wyvern’s front arms were built into its wings, with curved spines flaring from the elbow and a joint spiked with curling talons. On the ground, wyverns plodded along on their knuckles, like apes. Their long tails were barbed on the end, and could inject a poison strong enough to paralyse a plough horse in seconds flat.</span></p>
<p><span>Unlike dragons, they weren’t especially cognizant. A dragon</span><span> could plan and plot; it could speak, although no one (not even Moog) could decipher their draconic tongue. A dragon could, if given sufficient reason,</span> <em>hate</em><span> you—something Clay and his bandmates knew all too well.</span></p>
<p><span>A wyvern, on the other hand, was a predator, compelled by instinct to hunt and to kill. It was a beast, and like any beast its will could be broken, its instincts subverted by the understanding that it was not, after all, the most dangerous thing in the world.</span></p>
<p><span>At least that was Clay’s assumption, or else why in the Frost Mother’s Frozen Hell would a wyvern permit someone to</span> <em>ride on its fucking back</em><span>?</span></p>
<p><span>The “someone” in question was a druin, as Moog had mentioned yesterday. He slid down the wyvern’s black scales with a grace that mirrored Obolon Han dismounting his pony.</span></p>
<p><span>The Duke of Endland wore a long leather coat that was either burnished brown or bloody crimson, and carried three distinct swords in three distinct scabbards across his back. He was tall, like many of his kind, and thin, with skin pale as cream. His hair was the colour of a late autumn leaf, or a freshly minted copper coin, and but for a few strays the wind had plucked loose it was swept back against his skull. His features were typically druin: severe, all hard angles and jutting lines. He had a strong, sylvan nose, thin lips, sharp teeth, and long ears tufted like a rabbit’s and sheathed in fine white fur.</span></p>
<p><span>An old scar sliced through his left brow. It wasn’t obvious from where Clay stood behind the bristling crowd of Matrick’s guards, but he knew it was there.</span></p>
<p><span>Because he’d met this particular druin before. Knew his name even before Matrick said it out loud.</span></p>
<p><span>“Lastleaf?”</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf, son of Vespian, from whom Gabriel had inherited</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf, who had tried and failed (hence the scar) to take the Archon’s sword from Gabriel many years ago.</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf, the Duke of Endland, master of the Heartwyld Horde.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay found himself wondering what the Council of Courts etiquette was regarding vomiting your breakfast onto your boots. He suddenly wished he were elsewhere, anywhere—or better yet, someone else entirely. A simple man doing simple things. A cobbler, maybe. Cobblers rarely, if ever, made enemies of vengeful immortals, or so he figured.</span></p>
<p><span>The druin stopped where he was. He didn’t appear to notice the king had spoken. The wyvern craned its neck and lowered its head so the druin could stroke the glossy scales along its jaw. Clay assumed the beast was a matriarch, since it was twice the size of most wyverns he’d seen, and he’d seen quite a few. The creature emitted a sound like ten thousand cats purring at once, and the ribbed fins along her neck and below her chin vibrated in pleasure.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay made a note to congratulate himself later for not shitting himself right then and there. The same could not be said for the horses, however. At a word from the king—and a gesture from the Han—the skittish mounts were led away, off the hill and into the babbling throng. The great good fortune of seeing a druin</span> <em>and</em><span> a wyvern on the same day had created a fair bit of excitement down below. Clay saw one fellow setting up an easel and mixing water into a bowl of dry paint—no doubt he’d have the whole affair framed and hung on a brothel wall by tomorrow.</span></p>
<p><span>At last the druin turned and addressed the king of Agria in a measured voice. “Hello … Matrick, was it?”</span></p>
<p><span>The queen turned on her husband. “You know this creature?” she asked, which seemed to Clay like a piss-poor way to begin what was supposed to be a negotiation.</span></p>
<p><span>Though they were here at Lastleaf’s demand, Matrick had explained last night that the Council’s aim was to convince the self-proclaimed “Duke of Endland” to abandon his siege and disperse the Horde he claimed to lead. Though the kingdoms of Grandual had few—if any—ties to the faraway Republic of Castia, it seemed unwise (and somewhat callous) to sit by and do nothing while a horde of monsters wiped an entire city of humans off the face of the world.</span></p>
<p><span>“We’ve met before, yes,” Matrick told his wife. “It was a long time ago.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Not so long,” said Lastleaf, whose kind counted the turn of seasons as though they were hours in an endless day. “Not for me, anyhow, and yet I barely recognized you. You have grown old, and fat, and judging from the crown on your head it appears someone was foolish enough to make you a king.”</span></p>
<p><span>Obolon sniggered, and Matrick shot the Cartean ruler a glare before he replied. “I’m the king of Agria, yes.” The old rogue tried puffing out his chest but was forced to settle for thrusting out his gut. “And you look … exactly the same. Except the scar, of course,” he added with a decidedly undiplomatic wink. “That’s new.”</span></p>
<p><span>The scar had been dealt by</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>’s edge on the day Lastleaf, along with a few sylf henchmen, had ambushed Saga shortly after Gabriel had inherited Vespian’s fabled sword. The sylfs—druin-human halfbreeds most often shunned by everyone but their mortal mothers—were killed or driven off, and when Clay had last seen Lastleaf, the Archon’s son had been curled in agony around Ganelon’s boot, blinded by blood, heaping promises of retribution upon Gabe and his bandmates.</span></p>
<p><span>Just now the druin’s face remained impassive, which Clay found troubling for a number of reasons. Lastleaf touched his thumb to the pale scar beneath his left eye. “It suits me, don’t you think?”</span></p>
<p><span>Before the king could answer, Maladan Pike cut in. “Excuse me, Duke, but I didn’t come here—”</span></p>
<p><span>“</span><em>We</em><span>,” said Etna Doshi with a pointed look.</span></p>
<p><span>The First Shield of Kaskar sighed. “Fine.</span> <em>We</em><span> didn’t come here to listen while you and Old King Matrick swap stories. We came because—”</span></p>
<p><span>“—you want me to lift the siege of Castia,” finished Lastleaf.</span></p>
<p><span>“Well, yes,” said Pike. The northern prince was still holding his axe. In fact, members of several delegations hadn’t bothered to resheathe their weapons since the wyvern landed. Clay had a moment to wonder if putting everyone on edge had been the Duke’s intention in the first place.</span></p>
<p><span>“And my Horde?” wondered Lastleaf with feigned naivety. “Should I disband it? Bid my monstrous minions return to their forest lairs? Crawl back to their caves? Retreat to the deep, dark places of the world and wait patiently for some glory-hungry adventurer to come and claim the bounty on their heads?”</span></p>
<p><span>Pike wasn’t the sharpest sword in the armoury, but he knew when he was being toyed with. “Sounds like a plan,” he grated.</span></p>
<p><span>The ghost of a smile haunted the druin’s lips, but quickly vanished. “What’s done is done, I’m afraid. The arrow has left the string. Castia will fall, and soon. I could no more resurrect the Dominion than rescue the Republic from the doom that awaits it.”</span></p>
<p><span>The Phantran delegate shook her head. She’d slung her cutlass back into the sash at her waist, but her fingers lingered on its jewelled pommel. “What does the Old Dominion have to do with any of this? Who are you, even? Where did you come from?”</span></p>
<p><span>The druin regarded Etna Doshi as if she were a mouse that had poked its head out of the salad he was partway through eating. “I am from the forest. You may call me Lastleaf, or Duke—whichever you’d prefer. And as for the Dominion …” His long ears twitched. “We are each what the past has made of us. You would do well to remember what has come and gone before. Time is a circle, history a turning wheel. Though I can hardly expect a human to understand. Your memory is as limited as your mind is narrow.”</span></p>
<p><span>Doshi was on the verge of an angry retort when Lastleaf spoke up again. “I mean no insult to you personally, of course. I am merely pointing out the fact that humans are short-lived, short-sighted, and prone to repeating the mistakes of both your ancestors and mine.”</span></p>
<p><span>The Admiral’s daughter looked decidedly unimpressed by the Duke’s apology. “Since when was Endland a duchy then?” she asked sharply.</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf grinned, just as sharply. “When Castia is mine—and it</span> <em>will</em><span> be mine very soon—I may remake of it whatever I wish. Why not a duchy, with myself as its duke? Or would you rather I chose a more … ostentatious title? Shall I call myself king, or emperor, or archon?”</span></p>
<p><em>Moog was right</em><span>, Clay found himself thinking.</span> <em>The whole</em><span> duke</span> <em>thing is for our benefit, a way to make him seem less threatening to the kings and queens of Grandual.</em><span> Which seemed unnecessary, he thought, considering the druin commanded a force that was larger and substantially more terrifying than what any of the courts could muster on their own.</span></p>
<p><span>While Lastleaf was speaking, Clay saw a white-gloved hand push aside the silk curtains shrouding the Sultana’s palanquin. He caught the barest glimpse of a gold mask in the gloom as the occupant spoke with one of the three ministers, who then turned and cleared his throat before addressing Lastleaf.</span></p>
<p><span>“My Esteemed Lady, the Sultana of Narmeer, Bride of Vizan the Summer Lord, Mistress of the Scorching Throne, Herald of the Devouring Wastes, Scourge of the Serpent Clans, Bane of the Giants of Dumidia, Eternal Enemy of the Palapti Centaurs, bids me ask you this: How is it you control the Heartwyld Horde?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I do not control them,” said Lastleaf. “I compel them.”</span></p>
<p><span>“There’s a difference?” asked Obolon Han.</span></p>
<p><span>“The Horde cannot be controlled,” the druin replied. He had an odd manner of speaking, Clay noted. He opened his mouth very little, as though ashamed of his serrated teeth, or else reluctant to put more effort than necessary into the act of conversing. “My own kind learned this lesson long ago, and far too late. But it can be coaxed, threatened, provoked—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Well how about you</span> <em>provoke</em><span> them into leaving Castia the hell alone?” asked Doshi.</span></p>
<p><span>Lilith leaned in and whispered harshly into Matrick’s ear. The king blinked and started like a man roused from a peaceful nap. “Ah, yes, how about we adjourn to the—”</span></p>
<p><span>“I will not sit,” said Lastleaf. Behind him, the wyvern’s wings shuddered with a sound like wind-cracked sails.</span></p>
<p><span>“Fair enough,” said the king, earning himself one of Lilith’s many and varied scowls. The queen would be tired, of course, but to sit alone in this company would be seen as a sign of weakness from a woman who had very serious aspirations of ruling as Agria’s lone monarch before long.</span></p>
<p><span>The druin turned to face the First Shield, and when he did Clay got a good look at the scar left by</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> above his eye. The catlike pupil beneath it had ruptured, swelling to encompass the iris around it, which lent the druin an odd, unsettling gaze. “Imagine you lead a host of bloodthirsty warriors into the country of a bitter rival. You face their army on the field of battle and vanquish them.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Who says</span> <em>vanquish</em><span> anymore?” Moog breathed.</span></p>
<p><span>People who vanquished things, Clay supposed.</span></p>
<p><span>“Your enemy retreats behind their walls, and though you cannot breach them it is only a matter of time before their refuge becomes a grave. But your army, too, grows hungry. They have been promised blood, or coin, or flesh. And more: They crave the immeasurable joy of seeing a mortal foe brought to ruin and all they have loved turned to ash.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Been there,” quipped the Cartean Han, to the amusement of no one but his own clansmen.</span></p>
<p><span>“The Horde is an army like no other, and I have promised them Castia. Were they but men, then perhaps I could call them off. But they are not men.” He said these words very carefully, and seemed to savour each as they left his mouth. “They are wild things, fey creatures. They are everything you fear and many things you would fear to know, and they will not be turned back. Not even by me.”</span></p>
<p><span>The First Shield’s face had gone stern as a stormcloud. Doshi shrugged and shared a helpless glance with her fellow Phantrans, while the Han growled something over his shoulder to the Ravenguard warrior behind him. Matrick’s head was bowed as Lilith grumbled into his ear. Clay looked over at Gabriel, who was staring through the soiled mess of his hair as if the druin were a puzzle he was determined to solve. The</span> <span>Duke had yet to recognize any more of Saga’s members, stand</span><span>ing as they were behind the screen of Matrick’s guards.</span></p>
<p><em>I don’t imagine he’ll be happy to see Gabe again,</em><span> he figured, and wondered—not for the first time—if attending this council had been a wise idea after all.</span></p>
<p><span>The palanquin’s curtain shifted again, and again the gold-masked Sultana uttered something to her attending minister, who nodded, smoothed out his robes, and turned. “My Esteemed Lady, Sultana of Narmeer, Bride of Vizan the Summer Lord, Mistress of the Scorching Throne, Herald—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ask your question,” barked Lastleaf, his long ears quivering impatiently.</span></p>
<p><span>The druins, Clay knew, possessed something Vespian had referred to as “the prescience,” which gave them insight into the very near future. It meant they often knew your mind a moment before you spoke it, and made even the kindest druin seem impatient, since they sometimes replied to something you hadn’t quite finished saying.</span></p>
<p><span>And of course it made them real nasty fuckers in a fight.</span></p>
<p><span>The Narmeeri minister, caught between a rock and the very hardest of places, gave his mistress an inquiring glance. The mask dipped in acquiescence, and the man sighed, obviously relieved. “The Sultana would have me ask: Why summon us to council if not to negotiate? What is it you hope to achieve? Or have you come simply to gloat?”</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf raised his chin and wet his lips. His ears shivered, and his fingers opened and closed as though longing for the grasp of a sword. He appeared profoundly uncomfortable, and Clay wondered how long it had been since the druin had dealt with something other than a monster.</span></p>
<p><span>“I have a—” Lastleaf paused, as if rummaging his archaic</span><span> vocabulary in search of a suitable word “—request of my own.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And that is?” asked Matrick wearily.</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf spread his hands. His smile might have been charming were it not full of daggers. “Do nothing,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>No one spoke. The wind picked up; Clay could smell smoke on the evening breeze. Below, a few people had already begun trickling toward the river, where boatmen would be waiting by the dozen to ferry them across before dark.</span></p>
<p><em>Eager to be first back to Brycliffe with this story,</em><span> Clay figured, his eyes drawn to the pale Duke and his great black wyvern.</span> <em>But is it over yet?</em></p>
<p><span>It was Etna Doshi who broke the silence at last. “You wanna clarify that?” she asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“I am aware that you plan on sending an army to Castia,” said Lastleaf. “I am telling you to reconsider.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Requesting, you mean.” This from Obolon Han, who had not so casually placed the palm of one hand on the pommel of his sabre.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay saw Gabriel steal a nervous glance toward Matrick’s back. Matty had explained on the way here that the courts were, in fact, marshalling an army with the aim of liberating Castia, or at least eradicating whatever monsters inhabited the city by the time it arrived. Endland was a fair and fertile land, shielded from the Heartwyld by a range of daunting mountains. The Castian Republic, which had been founded by the fleeing remnants of Grandual’s short-lived Empire, had thrived there for more than three hundred years. Several prominent members of Castia’s ruling senate had fled their city and found asylum in Fivecourt before the siege began. They had promised great rewards to whichever of Grandual’s monarchs delivered their city from the Horde’s clutches.</span></p>
<p><span>“Think of the cost,” said Lastleaf, “to equip this army of yours, to feed them, to pay them wages worth facing a Horde for. The Heartwyld, even by the straightest path, is more than a thousand miles across. And beyond the forest lies the Emperor’s Mantle.”</span></p>
<p><em>A modest name for a wall of ice-clad stone infested with as many horrible creatures as the forest it borders,</em><span> Clay mused.</span></p>
<p><span>“It will take several months for an army to reach Castia. How many soldiers will you lose along the way? The woods remain home to terrible things—things even I dare not approach. How many of your people will fall prey to the flesheater tribes, or to the hungry mouths of the trees themselves? How many will succumb to the rot, I wonder?”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog stirred at that. He glanced sidelong at Matrick, who they hadn’t yet told of the wizard’s condition.</span> <em>Condition</em><span>, of course, being a gracious term for</span> <em>inevitable and exquisitely painful death</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>“By the time your army reaches Endland, weary and depleted, Castia will have fallen. My Horde, whose size even now would beggar your imagination, will have grown larger still, swollen with scavengers come to feast on the city’s corpse. If you challenge us, you</span> <em>will not win</em><span>. I defeated the Republic’s army, bolstered though it was by a legion of your famed mercenaries, and I would defeat you as well. Next time, however, there will be no more walls to hide behind, nowhere to run. If you face me on the battlefield, you risk annihilation.”</span></p>
<p><span>The sun had dropped behind the druin, throwing his shadow like a spear through the heart of the assembled delegates. There was a cold bite to the wind now. The Agrian guardsmen were growing visibly anxious, and Clay abruptly remembered what Matrick had said earlier about the wights that flocked to the Isle after dark.</span></p>
<p><span>“How many could each of you send? Five thousand? Ten? Even still, it will not be enough.”</span></p>
<p><em>That may be true,</em><span> Clay thought. The Heartwyld Horde might lack the cohesion of a professional army, but it was rumoured to be a hundred thousand strong. By the time</span> <span>Grandual’s forces reached Endland they would be tired and</span> <span>footsore, battered from the months-long trek across the forest,</span> <span>over the mountains. They would be outnumbered, he knew, and likely outmatched. Common soldiers—even the rugged warriors of Kaskar—weren’t the same breed as mercenaries. Mercs spent their whole careers hunting and killing monsters. A soldier’s life, especially since the courts had been at peace for decades, consisted primarily of marching, standing, sleeping, and occasionally throwing dice or playing cards against other soldiers who weren’t busy marching, standing, or sleeping.</span></p>
<p><span>A court soldier might know one end of a sword from the other—hells, there may even be a few handy fighters among them—but they weren’t likely to know that a cockatrice’s gaze could turn flesh to stone, or that bugbears, for whatever reason, couldn’t see the colour yellow. Knowledge like that could be exploited. It could save your life. No, Clay reasoned, pitting regular troops against a Heartwyld Horde was likely to result in disaster, as it had for the Republic.</span></p>
<p><span>The council knew this, and so did Lastleaf.</span></p>
<p><span>“All those precious lives,” he said blithely, “will vanish, like smoke. Who among you can afford to lose so many soldiers?”</span></p>
<p><span>“It tastes like a mouthful of seawater,” said Etna Doshi, “but the ‘Duke’ here has a point. Castia may be far from here, but it’s a damn sight farther from Aldea. My queen won’t likely see the sense in sending so many west with little to no chance they’d ever come back.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay saw Gabriel flinch as though struck.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick, his hands balled into fists, whirled on her. “We can’t just let all those people die!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Of course we can,” snapped Lilith. “Be practical, Matrick.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I’m with the king on this,” said Maladan Pike. “A lot of good mercs went west. I’m not of a mind to give up on them. And besides, any one of my warriors is worth ten bloody goblins. A hundred, even. I’d bet my horse on it.”</span></p>
<p><span>At the rate the man wagered horses, Clay was surprised the First Shield had found a mount to carry him to Lindmoor.</span></p>
<p><span>The High Han was shaking his head at Matrick. “It hurts like a horse’s cock to say it, but I stand with Old King Matrick as well. If Agria goes west, Cartea rides with ’em.”</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf turned on Maladan Pike, a sneer pulling at his mouth. “And who will remain to defend the north should the yethiks emerge in force from their winter caves?” The First Shield glowered, and looked poised to voice an angry retort, but the druin wheeled on Doshi first. “Who will be left to guard your coasts if saig raiders storm ashore by the thousand? Who will keep the serpent kin from despoiling your precious oases and cutting off trade with the north?” he asked the Narmeeri ministers, who began clucking to one another behind raised, ring-adorned hands.</span></p>
<p><em>These aren’t probabilities</em><span>, Clay thought,</span> <em>they’re threats.</em><span> His gaze roved among the assembled delegates, who were wringing their hands and muttering worriedly.</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf said to Matrick, “Your borders are plagued by centaurs, yes? Stealing children, killing farmers here and there? Let us hope they do not grow emboldened while your soldiers are away in the west. They might start wiping out whole villages, putting entire towns on the spit.” At last he looked to Obolon Han.</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, fuck off,” said the Cartean. “I get it. We attack you, you attack us. I can see the clouds without you telling me rain is on the way.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And if we leave you alone?” inquired Lilith, no longer content to use Matrick as her mouthpiece. “If we shun the Republic and abandon Castia?”</span></p>
<p><span>Another grin from Lastleaf, autumnal this time—all light and no warmth.</span></p>
<p><em>He has what he came here for</em><span>, Clay thought.</span> <em>Compliance. Capitulation.</em></p>
<p><span>“Then the distant Republic becomes the Duchy of Endland,” the druin explained, almost cheerfully. “And perhaps, someday, an ally to the courts of Grandual—”</span></p>
<p><span>“You can’t be serious!”</span></p>
<p><span>All eyes turned to Gabriel, but none quicker than Last</span><span>leaf’s, whose gaze flooded with hateful recognition.</span> <em>“You!”</em><span> he hissed, ears trembling with rage, his mask of civility shattering in an instant. He didn’t reach for a sword—not yet—but Clay didn’t need a druin’s prescience to see violence brewing.</span></p>
<p><span>Even so, what happened next surprised him.</span></p>
<p><span>Sensing an opportunity, Obolon Han surged forward, bare</span><span> sabre bloodied by the setting sun. Lastleaf, his focus nailed to Gabriel, didn’t see the Cartean coming until it was too late, and even then he’d barely begun to turn when the Han’s sword came chopping down—</span></p>
<p><span>Something dark eclipsed the sun; a sound like the sky tearing split the dusk.</span></p>
<p><span>The Han’s blade went spinning away, missing Lastleaf by mere inches, and Obolon’s feet scissored madly as the wyvern’s jaws snapped shut over his head. For just a moment Clay could hear the Han’s screams echo down the monster’s throat, until, with a wet crunch, Obolon’s torso was ripped free from his legs. The wyvern spread her wings and tipped her head back. Clay would have sworn he saw her throat bulge as the Cartean (well, half of him anyway) was forced down her gullet.</span></p>
<p><span>There was shouting—the din of general panic—among the gathered delegates, but no one actually moved. Even the Han’s Ravenguard seemed rooted to the spot, too afraid to draw their bows lest the wyvern single them out next.</span></p>
<p><span>Lastleaf was on his rump, apparently dazed, likely grappling with the fact that all his careful schemes had, for the space of a heartbeat, seemed as fragile as a spider’s web at the mercy of the wind. His long ears had gone limp. He raked red-gold hair from his eyes as he scrambled to his feet, then reached back and withdrew the topmost sword from its scabbard. The blade looked as though it were made of sun-baked stone laced with igneous cracks. The air around it shimmered with searing heat.</span></p>
<p><span>By now, however, most everyone on the hill had recovered from the shock of Obolon’s death. The druin spared a snarl for Gabriel before he turned, coat whirling at his knees, and stalked beneath the wyvern’s outstretched wing.</span></p>
<p><span>He shouted,</span> <em>“Ashatan!”</em><span> and the creature stooped so Lastleaf could grasp hold of a spine and haul himself onto her back.</span></p>
<p><span>The wyvern’s powerful legs propelled her upward. Her wings thrashed the air as she soared out of bowshot, and Clay could smell her stink in his nostrils, a scent like carrion bloating in still water.</span></p>
<p><span>The Isle, meanwhile, dissolved into pandemonium. Pike’s warriors were scuffling with a number of Doshi’s pirates. The Han’s men scattered, racing toward their shrieking mounts. The Sultana’s Kaskars ushered her palanquin away; the storm-wracked sails of her skyship crackled and the tidal engines whirred to life. Crossbow turrets along its rails were aimed at the darkening sky.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay looked to his friends. “We should probably … what?” he asked. “Moog, what is it?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe’s eyes were skyward still, but the wizard was gawping downhill. Clay followed his gaze, and at first didn’t know what exactly he was seeing. Lights like blue-white candles were flickering all across Lindmoor, coalescing into the shape of …</span></p>
<p><em>Men. Or the ghosts of men.</em><span> There were hundreds of them, and hundreds more sparking to life among the shadowed eaves to the east.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay decided now was a good time to conclude his earlier thought. “We should go,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Matrick!” screeched Lilith, clinging tightly to her bodyguard’s arm.</span></p>
<p><span>The king, in a vain attempt to keep the peace, had wedged himself between a Kaskar twice his height and a Phantran with anchor-shaped tears tattooed on her cheek. “Yes, dear?” he asked, before catching sight of the wights glowing in the fen below. “Oh.”</span></p>
<p><span>He managed to extricate himself and ordered his guardsmen escort them, with haste, to the river. As their party rushed down the southern slope, Matrick fell in step with his bandmates. “I may be stabbing at spectres here, but I’d say the Council was a spectacular fucking failure.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Speaking of spectres …” Clay cast a wary eye at the iridescent figures plodding past them on either side, converging slowly on the Isle. “Should we be worried?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Nah,” Matrick waved a hand. “They won’t hurt us. Probably. Hopefully.” He whistled at the captain of his guard. “Let’s pick up the pace a bit, shall we?”</span></p>
<p><span>When Lilith swooned, overcome by exhaustion, Lokan hoisted her gallantly in his arms. When Matrick, wheezing, tripped over his own weary feet, Clay and Gabriel propped him up between them.</span></p>
<p><span>“Moog,” whispered the king, “do me a favour?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Anything,” said the wizard, drawing near.</span></p>
<p><span>“Kill me. Tonight.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>