<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter050">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23870a" id="Ref_23870"><span>Chapter Fifty</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23870a"><span><em>The Battle of the Bands</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>Barret’s boys were the first ones through. Three other youths (the remaining Wight Nights, presumably) came with them, each sporting the same dark-rimmed eyes and bleached-bone hair.</span></p>
<p><span>Jain’s girls were next; the brigand turned bandleader gave Clay a touch with the tip of her bow as she passed.</span></p>
<p><span>“Long way from stealing socks on the roadside, eh Slowhand?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Long way,” Clay agreed. “Stay safe, Jain.”</span></p>
<p><span>She laughed and called over her shoulder, “Little late for that!”</span></p>
<p><span>Geralt Snakewater came after. The big man was too ashamed to look Gabe’s way, but he spared a respectful nod for Ganelon, who was standing on the carcass of the flying centipede with one eye on the sky.</span></p>
<p><span>Next came a whole host of bands Clay didn’t recognise, though many of them announced themselves to Gabriel as they went by. The men of Giantsbane were big blonde northerners, each wielding an axe almost as huge as</span> <em>Syrinx</em><span>; Courtney and the Sparks bore southern scimitars and red silk skirts; the Silent Sons were ashen faced, mute as corpses as they marched into line; the Banshees ran past screaming; the Dustgalls shouted greetings in a language Clay had never heard; the Renegades sported an array of black eyes, bloodied noses, and gap-toothed smiles, as though they’d already been in a scrap that morning and were eager for more.</span></p>
<p><span>Mercenaries were announced by their bards as they emerged from the portal: Layla Sweetpenny, Jasper the Creep, Brother Sandman, Hasdrubal Doomflayer. There was a man called the Blind Tiger who might actually have been blind, and another named Ben the Stalactian who looked as though there was giant’s blood in his veins.</span></p>
<p><span>Plenty of old names showed up as well—Tushino the Wicked, Jorma Mulekicker, Queen-Killer Lysanthe—and a great many bands Clay was surprised to see still touring: the Dreamers, the Locksmiths, the Wheat Kings, Slade and the</span> <span>War-Dancers. Red Bob strode proudly toward the front, trailed</span> <span>by a frightened bard that looked as if he were contemplating a sudden retirement. Neil the Young hobbled by, leaning heavily on a gnarled staff, prompting Clay to wonder if the grey-bearded wizard went by Neil the Old these days.</span></p>
<p><span>They kept on coming, streaming from the Threshold like a river delta flooding into the sea. Here came Deckart Clearwater and his double-hafted hammer, followed by Hank the Beholder, whose shield, due to an elaborate contraption built into the grip, could spout fire from the red eye painted on its face. Here came the Black Puddings, the People Eaters, the Shewolves. Five men jogged past wearing the livery of Fivecourt guardsmen. Each one waved at Clay as if they knew him.</span></p>
<p><span>Here came the Sisters in Steel, barrelling toward the wing on sleek white horses. They looked considerably more deadly and significantly less glamourous than they had during the parade back in Conthas. Here came the Stormriders as well, one of which stopped to shake Gabriel’s hand and mutter an apology for, as he rather flippantly put it,</span> <em>that whole business with the chimera</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay felt a prickle on his skin and caught some kid glaring at him. It took him a moment to place where he’d seen that scowl before, but he finally did.</span></p>
<p><span>“The fuck you looking at?” he asked the platinum-haired frontman of the Screaming Eagles—the one who’d managed to provoke Ganelon into a fight in the Riot House back in Fivecourt. The young man bore a crooked nose as a memento of that ill-fated confrontation.</span></p>
<p><span>“A legend, apparently,” said the kid, waving his bandmates by.</span></p>
<p><span>“Same here,” Clay told him. The frontman nodded, obviously heartened, and trotted off.</span></p>
<p><span>Truth be told, Clay didn’t even know the kid’s name, but it never hurt to bolster someone’s confidence before a fight, and who said Gabriel had a monopoly on kick-ass pep talks? Clay was watching the boy go when Gabe took his shoulder and turned him round.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret had taken Vanguard to the front already, and Kit was watching the endless stream of wild-eyed warriors still arriving from the fair-grounds in Kaladar, which left Clay and his bandmates alone for the first time since they’d raided Kallorek’s compound more than a month before—something each of them seemed to apprehend at once.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog and Matrick put an arm around each other. The wizard slung his other behind Clay’s back, while Matty reached up and placed a hand on Ganelon’s broad shoulder. The southerner shifted uncomfortably but didn’t shrug him off, nor did he shy away when Gabriel clasped his left wrist to complete the circle.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had no idea how long the five of them stood like that, though afterward he thought it might have been an absurdly long time, considering the fact that the Heartwyld Horde was now bearing down on them. For a while no one spoke, because in the roundabout course of thirty-some years they had said just about all there was to say to one another, until finally Clay could bear the silence no longer and cleared his throat.</span></p>
<p><span>“I love you guys,” he said, and gods-be-damned if his voice didn’t sell him out at the end and crack like a boy of twelve summers.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog nearly choked on a sob himself. “I love you guys, too,” he said, unashamed by the tears rolling over his cheeks.</span></p>
<p><span>“Me too,” Matty croaked.</span></p>
<p><span>“I love you,” said Gabriel, matching gazes with each of them one by one. “All of you.”</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon remained silent, but when the rest of them looked his way he rolled his eyes and loosed a sympathetic growl. “Okay, fine. You’re the last four people I’d ever kill.”</span></p>
<p><span>A smile slipped onto Gabe’s face for the length of a long breath, before it slid like a sickle moon behind a wisp of sombre cloud. “For Rose,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>“For Rose,” they echoed, and by then the first horns of war were blowing, loud and long and clear across the sky.</span></p>
<p><span>The battle for Castia was about to begin.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>A battle, as relayed by a poet, is a glorious thing, full of heroic stands, daring charges, and valiant sacrifice. But a battlefield, as experienced by some poor bastard mired in the thick of it, is something different altogether.</span></p>
<p><span>The word</span> <em>clusterfuck</em><span> came to mind.</span></p>
<p><em>At least it’s clear who the enemy is</em><span>, thought Clay, using</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> to deflect the spear of a charging centaur as Gabriel took its front legs off at the knee. The centaur’s wailing face-plant might have been amusing were there not several hundred more of his kind galloping behind.</span></p>
<p><span>Although they hadn’t seen Lastleaf or his wyvern matriarch as of yet, there was clear evidence of a mastermind behind the Horde’s tactics thus far. A detachment of centaurs and mounted wargs had circled to the north in an attempt to flank Grandual’s mercenaries.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel, exerting what little influence he could over his ragtag army, sent the Sisters in Steel, along with every other rider at his disposal, out to meet them. Their orders had been to break off as soon as possible, while Saga led a few hundred mercs on foot behind. Centaurs could mount a devastating charge, but once engaged, especially in the close-quarters chaos of a battlefield, they were pushovers. Unlike typical cavalry, where if you injured a horse you still had to deal with its rider, the horse-men presented huge targets, and if you hamstrung one it was fairly easy to finish it off.</span></p>
<p><span>Once Saga and the others had locked down their foes, the Sisters and their mercenary cavalry rushed back in from the rear. Before long the centaurs were dead or put to rout, while the wargs, enraged by bloodlust, began to turn on friend and foe alike.</span></p>
<p><em>A fair start</em><span>, Clay was forced to admit, but that was the last manoeuvre Gabe could hope to make. By now the two forces—the horde of monsters and the host of mercenaries—had crashed together into a brawling morass that sounded to Clay’s ears like an ocean filled with several hundred thousand drowning people all screaming for help at once.</span></p>
<p><span>“This way,” yelled Gabe. He slipped through a knot in the fighting and led Saga toward the centre. Clay followed as close as he could. His left arm was mending but was far from healed. It was still in its sling, leaving him little choice but to stay on Gabe’s heels and weather whatever blows he could on behalf of his friend. Matrick skulked after them like an urchin, slicing open foes like they were purse bottoms in a market square. Ganelon hacked his way alongside them with</span> <em>Syrinx</em><span>, and Moog, who had strapped a quartet of bandoliers to his chest, was lobbing vial after vial of volatile explosives into the enemy ranks.</span></p>
<p><em>Gods forbid anything hit him</em><span>, Clay worried. One unlucky strike and the wizard would go off like spring fireworks.</span> <em>And us with him, probably.</em></p>
<p><span>Gabriel had been spot-on about one thing during his speech back in Kaladar: the Horde was a nightmare made real. Every heinous and hideous thing you could imagine was present. There were goblins and rock-hulks, wild orcs, uncountable thousands of yapping kobolds, and rune-broken golems with glowing green eyes. There were horse-headed ixil and horned hoary murlogs, skeletons rattling in rusted armour, and way more giant spiders than Clay was comfortable with.</span></p>
<p><span>There were scorpions the size of horses, lanky trolls with eyes like smouldering pits, firbolgs in soiled loincloths swinging spiked clubs, and ogre-mages hurling bolts of lightning from brandished bone totems. Great shaggy treants roamed the battleground, their twisted boughs home to spriggans firing tiny barbed arrows into the crowd below. There were burrowing wyrms that swallowed men whole, and drakes breathing everything from fire and ice to clouds of noxious gas.</span></p>
<p><span>There were battalions of black-scaled lizard-folk carrying wicked billhooks, scores of gibbering grimlocks with clammy white skin and round iron helms pricked with tiny holes to shield their eyes from the light of day. There were direwolves, bloodboars, and plate-armoured death knights on the backs of mammoth bears.</span></p>
<p><span>There were witches with curling nails and filed teeth, and warlocks who’d carved runes of vile power into their very flesh. There were great apes like the one he’d seen back in Conthas, striped like tigers in colours so vibrant they looked unreal. These ones were a touch more savage, however; Clay saw one tear a woman into halves like she was a loaf of warm bread.</span></p>
<p><span>Which was not to mention the big boys: A pair of giants roamed unchallenged, levelling a dozen warriors with every step. Several cyclopes waded knee-deep among the mercenary ranks, so hideously deformed they’d have made Dane look like Gabriel in his golden prime. They swung flails and broad-bladed axes that cut bloody arcs through anyone in their path. Clay had seen a swarm of scuttling ankheg and known that somewhere in their midst would be a queen, bloated with the next clutch of mindless drones.</span></p>
<p><span>The sky belonged almost solely to the enemy. Clouds of giant bats swept down with razor claws, rot sylphs belched streams of acid bile, gargoyles plunged like stones upon unsuspecting heads.</span></p>
<p><span>There was another creature—Clay hadn’t even known what to call it—that was some kind of enormous plant. When it wasn’t spewing acid all over the place it was hoisting mercs into the air with its tentacle limbs and dropping them into what looked, disturbingly, to be a mouth</span> <em>inside</em><span> of its mouth.</span></p>
<p><span>But then another monstrosity arrived: An argosy armoured</span> <span>in metal plates and powered by what looked like a pared-down tidal engine came roaring from the Threshold. The plant-thing’s acid splashed harmlessly over its iron-plated carapace, and the massive war wagon responded by blasting liquid fire from a spout at its front before running its adversary down beneath nail-studded treads. The mercenaries rallied around the rolling behemoth as it ploughed into the mob.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay saw pale-skinned necromancers hovering above plagues of living dead, their frayed cloaks billowing on deathly currents. Demons wreathed in boiling smoke cackled like madmen as they struck down would-be heroes with blades of blistering fire.</span></p>
<p><span>One of them stood out from the rest, and not just because it was several magnitudes larger. Well,</span> <em>mostly</em><span> because of that, but also because it bore a whip that instantly froze whatever it touched and carried a sword as long as a ship’s mast, which it used to smash frost-rimed mercenaries to bloody fragments. The thing looked like a man-shaped mountain of jagged ice, its limbs encased in scraps of dull black armour. A pair of iron-sheathed, front-facing horns curved from its head above eyes like charnel pits.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay knew it for an Infernal the moment he laid eyes on it. He’d never seen one before—not beyond the confines of paintings or tapestries, anyhow—but he recognized it nonetheless.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay remembered Shadow, the druin claw-broker, mentioning that Lastleaf had spent years rallying the horde, traveling the breadth of the Heartwyld, rousing the beast-tribes of Endland, brokering pacts with some of the forest’s most corrupted inhabitants. Judging by the size of the force he’d managed to</span> <span>assemble, Clay was surprised there’d been anything left to</span> <span>haunt the Wyld on their way through.</span></p>
<p><span>“Look alive!” Gabe called as a clutch of urskin jumped them.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay deflected a spear thrust and drove his shield into his attacker’s froglike face. Ganelon plucked one of the things off his back and slammed it onto the ground at his feet. Matrick took a tongue thrust to the face and reeled as though punched, but before the creature could finish him Moog tapped it with a wand.</span></p>
<p><span>“</span><em>Kaza!</em><span>” yelled the wizard. The frogman stopped short,</span> <span>bewildered. Before it could recover Matrick jammed his knives</span><span> to the hilt in its chest.</span></p>
<p><span>“What spell was that?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“Spell?” Moog brandished the wand. “You mean this? It’s just a stick,” he said, and tossed it away.</span></p>
<p><em>The world’s a changing place</em><span>, Matrick had told him back in Fivecourt, and Clay knew he was seeing the fallout of that change all around him. Because so many bands had sought the artificial glory of the arenas instead of venturing out in search of the real thing, the denizens of the Heartwyld had been granted time to repopulate, to nurse their hatred of human civilization, the whole forest festering like an untended wound gone septic.</span></p>
<p><em>And potentially fatal</em><span>, he thought, as Gabriel led them into the body-strewn wake of the armoured war wagon. The closer they got to the city the more evidence they saw of the Horde’s months-long occupation: bodies impaled on blood-sheathed spears, fire pits and trenches heaped with bones. The enemy had constructed a number of shoddy siege engines, Clay noted. Nothing they could hurl would have done much harm to Castia’s spell-warded walls, but as they passed near to one he saw the bucket was stained with gore, and he shuddered to imagine what these machines had launched in place of stones.</span></p>
<p><span>They were nearing the thick of it now: the chaotic centre of the miles-long battlefield. He had been involved in enough petty wars to know that battles like this were won and lost on the wings, but Gabriel seemed dead set on driving like a blade toward the heart of the Horde, and Clay thought he knew why.</span></p>
<p><em>If we can find Lastleaf … if we can somehow kill him, then maybe we can end this.</em></p>
<p><span>With only a shield to hand, Clay did his best to keep his bandmates from harm. When a gargoyle dive-bombed Matrick, Clay pushed him aside, planting his feet and slanting his shield so the thing didn’t crush him. Thanks to the impenetrable</span> <em>Warskin</em><span>, Clay shrugged off countless sword and spear thrusts meant for Moog, and</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>’s mottled face was spiked with splintered arrows. He hauled Ganelon from the rubble of a vanquished earth elemental, and even found time to step between Red Bob and an ankheg’s gnashing pincers.</span></p>
<p><span>The mercenary murmured scant thanks and rushed off, only to be crushed a moment later by a giant’s pounding foot. Bob’s bard turned and fled, wailing and clutching his harp to his chest like a scholar saving a single book from a burning library.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay gazed up at the colossus. It hadn’t taken notice of them yet, but a giant hardly needed to see you to kill you, did it? It stalked across the battlefield like a child treading over grass, wreaking unwitting devastation with every step.</span></p>
<p><em>Well, perhaps not entirely unwitting</em><span>, Clay amended, as the giant’s next earth-hammering stomp killed all five of the Skulks at once.</span> <em>But what the hell can we do?</em><span> Killing a giant was possible, sure, but it took time, and proper planning, the right weapons, and a fair bit of good fortune.</span> <em>You just can’t …</em></p>
<p><span>The giant’s throat suddenly bristled with half a dozen shivering crossbow bolts. The brute looked as confused about that as Clay was, but then several more barbs sprouted amidst a spray of misting blood. The giant’s eyes glazed over in death and it sagged thunderously to its knees.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay craned his neck to gape at the skyship soaring ponderously overhead, now banking, so that even though they were too far off to read clearly, Clay knew at once the bold white words stamped along the dreadnought’s hull.</span></p>
<p><span>Larkspur had come to Castia.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>