<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter024">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23792a" id="Ref_23792"><span>Chapter Twenty-four</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23792a"><span><em>Flying by Night</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>“Motherfucking</span> <em>Saga</em><span>. I’ll be a troll’s new testicle, I still can’t believe it. Tiamax, are you seeing this?”</span></p>
<p><span>“With all six eyes,” said Tiamax.</span></p>
<p><span>“Unbelievable.” Barret reclined in his seat, long legs stretched out before him. Vanguard’s frontman was as tall as Ganelon and as broad as Clay himself. His shaggy hair and beard were shot through with grey, but his thick arms were still corded with muscle, and he seemed as fit and full of vigour now as when Clay had seen him last.</span></p>
<p><span>Vanguard’s skyship, which the band had found half submerged in a swamp during their last tour of the Heartwyld, was small but remarkably comfortable. The hull was flat bottomed, roofed by a sail that peaked like a tent overhead. Now and again currents of blue electricity would arc across the sail’s metal ribs, but since no one else seemed concerned about that Clay kept his misgivings to himself. There were sofas set against either wale, and an exceptionally well-stocked bar toward the stern. Candles in clouded glass jars were suspended above, bathing the deck in soft, swaying light.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret was shaking his shaggy head. “Holy Tetrea, but I never thought to see the five of you in one place again. I’d have bet on watching a parade of owlbears through the streets of Ardburg first.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You still might see those owlbears,” Moog grumbled.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret turned his big grin on Clay. “How long has it been, Slowhand?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Uh …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ten years, maybe? Twelve? We passed through on our way west and had drinks in that shithole dive Coverdale calls a tavern. The King’s Head, was it?”</span></p>
<p><span>“That’s the one,” said Clay, and couldn’t help a wistful smile sliding onto his face.</span></p>
<p><span>“You had a girl with you, I remember. Pretty young lass with tits like the Spring Maiden’s.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ginny,” Clay replied. “My wife.”</span></p>
<p><span>Barret whistled. “Good on ya, lad. Good fucking on ya. Worth settling down for, tits like those …” He fell silent, gazing out at the red-gold sky as if he’d said something profound and needed time to contemplate the wisdom in his words.</span></p>
<p><span>Vanguard’s bard, Edwick, was slouched at the helm, keeping half an eye on a pair of polished onyx steering orbs and strumming quietly on a weathered mandolin. The old man had been with the band since their inception, which Clay found nigh incredible, since Saga had gone through more bards in their ten touring years than Clay could hope to remember.</span></p>
<p><span>The rest of the band was mostly intact. Barret was still Barret, big and coarse and immanently affable. Ashe was still hard, still pretty, and still pretty mean. Her hair was shaved close on the sides, braided down her back, and dyed a shade of bright purple Clay hadn’t known existed until he’d seen her a few hours ago. Tiamax, the arachnian, looked as unsettlingly alien as he always had, though the bristly whiskers around his mouth had turned grey. He’d lost the lower half of one mandible and wore criss-crossed patches over two of his eight faceted eyes.</span></p>
<p><span>Only Hog was missing, replaced by a man Barret had introduced as Hog’s oldest son. The lad had inherited his father’s shocking obesity, his hesitant nature, and the unfortunate nickname of Piglet. The boy, sweating despite the cool wind wafting across the deck, was plundering a plate of honey-glazed donuts as though it were the first meal he’d eaten all day. Clay very much doubted that was the case.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s a real honour,” Piglet said between mouthfuls, “to meet you guys in person. My father always talked about you. Barret talks about you too. Best band there ever was, he says. Besides Vanguard, I mean.”</span></p>
<p><span>“We’re not really a band anymore,” said Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>“Well you certainly looked like one on the sands today,” said Tiamax. He was standing behind the bar, a glass or a pestle or a bottle in every hand, making drinks as fast as the others could hammer them down. “We came across a chimera once, you know, out in the Wyld.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You kill it?” asked Ganelon, stretched out on a sofa by himself.</span></p>
<p><span>The arachnian’s laugh was a series of staccato clicks. “Kill it? Gods, no.”</span></p>
<p><span>“We ran as fast as we bloody well could,” said Ashe, who was perched on a stool beside Matrick. She was a southerner, like Ganelon, and her voice affected the same lazy drawl. “The hatcher here won that particular race, if I recall.”</span></p>
<p><span>Tiamax clicked again—admonishingly this time, which left Clay wondering how it was he could tell the difference. “Now now, Ashe, no need to be slanderous. Is that why you haven’t slept with me yet? Are you afraid of giving birth to eggs? It’s easier than pushing out a baby, or so I’m told. No arms or legs to poke and prod you on the way out, just … plop, an adorable little egg.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I won’t sleep with you because you’re a fucking</span> <em>bug</em><span>, is why.”</span></p>
<p><span>“A bug with</span> <em>six</em><span> hands, my dear. Think on it.” Tiamax cracked a polished wooden shaker into halves and poured a cherry-coloured drink into Matrick’s empty glass.</span></p>
<p><span>Matty smiled appreciatively. He was nursing his wounded arm, still, but the arachnian had given him something for the pain. “I’m just glad you all showed up when you did,” he said. “Things were getting dicey back there.”</span></p>
<p><em>Dicey</em><span> struck Clay as a bit of an understatement. He’d been looking overboard as the Maxithon smashed itself to splinters against the arch of the eastern water gate, spilling panicked multitudes like a beehive dashed against the ground.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret sat up suddenly, planting both feet on the deck. The expression he fixed on Clay was serious. “Listen, are you sure about this Castia business? I mean, you’ll be months in the Wyld, and even if you do make it …” He spread his hands, daring a quick glance at Gabriel, who sat staring into nowhere and had said nothing since coming aboard. “Assuming you</span> <em>do</em><span> make it, all right? You’re just one band.”</span></p>
<p><span>What could Clay do but shrug? With Gabe in the state he was, it had been left to him to explain the reason behind Saga’s improbable reunion. “Even still,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Ashe set her mug on the bar with a</span> <em>clack</em><span>. “We almost went, you know, to Castia. When the Republic put out the call for bands. Barret was all for it, of course, and Piggy’s too young and dumb to know better. Even Edwick was in favour.” She snorted. “I think the old fucker has our eulogy half composed already.”</span></p>
<p><span>“It’ll be beautiful,” called the bard over his shoulder.</span></p>
<p><span>“Anyway, the hatcher and I actually agreed on something for once. We both saw the stormclouds gathering o’er that one. We had a contract with a temple in Hamshire at the time—gargoyles running amok or some shit—and so we ended up sticking around. Gods be praised, too, or we’d be—” her eyes flickered toward Gabriel “—well, we wouldn’t be here.”</span></p>
<p><span>“So no chance of us hitching a ride all the way to Castia then?” asked Matrick wryly.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret sighed. “I’m sorry, no. Even if I wanted to—which I don’t—I have my family to think of. My boys are barely grown, and Avery’s been on me to retire for years now. She wouldn’t go for this one bit. Flying over the Heartwyld is near as bad walking through it. There’s lightstorms and sparkwyrms …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Plague hawks,” said Tiamax.</span></p>
<p><span>“Manticores,” Ashe chimed in.</span></p>
<p><span>“Lamias,” Barret added, “and blood locusts …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Wyverns,” said Matrick, unhelpfully.</span></p>
<p><span>“Wyverns everywhere,” said Barret. “And what are those things that look like dragons and sound like dragons?” he asked facetiously.</span></p>
<p><span>“I believe they’re called dragons, boss.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Thank you, Ashe.” He sighed heavily and dragged his fingers through his shaggy hair. “I’m sorry, guys, I really am. I mean, flirting with the Frost Mother is one thing, but putting your cock in her mouth is just plain stupid.”</span></p>
<p><span>“That’s really pretty,” said Edwick, pausing to tune his instrument. “Would you mind if I use it in a song?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Be my guest,” said Barret.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s a shame you’re so pressed for time.” Tiamax reached up to scratch beneath a leather eye patch. “The War Fair is hardly a month away. Every band in Grandual will be there. Plenty of young mercs as well, eager to make a name for themselves. Maybe an army’s worth.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Bah, the War Fair ain’t what it was,” grumbled Ashe. “Used to be only real fighters showed their faces in Kaladar. Nowadays every snot-nosed whelp with a hair on his chin and a sword in his hand thinks he’s got what it takes to be a merc. All they care about is getting paid and getting laid.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Hear, hear!” said Tiamax, raising four glasses at once.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay hadn’t found much to like about mercenary life, but he had to admit the War Fair was—or had been, anyway—a hell of a good time. He’d been to Kaladar three times. It was, essentially, a three-day orgy of booze, drugs, and rampant violence, with a few</span> <em>actual orgies</em><span> thrown in for good measure. There was even a popular saying:</span> <em>What happens in Kaladar …</em></p>
<p><span>“I’m serious,” said Ashe, pressing her point. “The world used to be a scary place, remember? We were trying to make it better. Well, most of us, anyway.”</span></p>
<p><span>“We</span> <em>did</em><span> make it better,” said Moog, who’d been uncharacteristically silent until now.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick drained his cup. “Damn right we did.”</span></p>
<p><span>From his couch, with his eyes closed and his hands tucked behind his head, Ganelon said, “Seems just the same to me.”</span></p>
<p><span>They were quiet for a bit after that. The sun set at last, and it wasn’t the wisest idea to stay airborne at night, but Edwick insisted he was good to fly for a while yet. Piglet finished his donuts and ambled over to the bar for a beer. Ashe volunteered her spot, moving to sit beside Gabriel. He flinched when she put a hand on his shoulder, but she spoke to him in gentle tones, like a groom attempting to placate a skittish horse.</span></p>
<p><span>“Piglet,” said Moog, “forgive me, but can I ask about your father?”</span></p>
<p><span>The boy slurped at his mug. “Like how he died, you mean?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes, please. If you don’t mind …”</span></p>
<p><span>Piglet shrugged. “It was the rot.”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard closed his eyes, nodding as if he’d already guessed the answer. “Damn,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>“He actually lasted longer than we figured he would,” Piglet elaborated. “He was a big man—well, you know that. But he was strong, too. Really strong. Until, well … It started in his toes, and his fingers, so he couldn’t get around very well. We had to feed him after that. And when they cracked and broke off we thought maybe …” He said nothing for a moment, turning and turning his mug on the spot. “But it started up again on his arm, then his face. His nose and ears just sort of … dried up, you know? By then he was tired all the time. He didn’t speak much, and didn’t make much sense when he did. And he was so</span> <em>scared</em><span>. He—”</span></p>
<p><span>“I know!” Moog snapped, and it was obvious straightaway he’d spoken more harshly than he’d meant to. “I’m sorry,” he said, reaching out to pat the boy’s arm. “I … that is … I know what it’s like to lose someone that way. To watch them waste away before your eyes, wishing there was some way to make them better, or to make them suffer less. Except you</span> <em>can’t</em><span> make them better. And they</span> <em>do</em><span> suffer …” The wizard’s voice quavered and broke off. He looked out over the rail, pretending to scratch his head while swiping at one eye with the sleeve of his robe. “They suffer …”</span></p>
<p><span>“But not alone,” said Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog glanced his way, and Clay saw, for perhaps the first time in all the years they had known each other, a naked, bottomless fear in the wizard’s face.</span></p>
<p><span>“You’re not alone,” he repeated, and then watched, without knowing what more he could say, as pure terror writhed behind the wizard’s eyes. Until finally Moog closed them, biting his bottom lip as a pair of perfidious tears streamed over his cheeks.</span></p>
<p><span>The silence around the ship changed perceptibly. Tiamax froze in the midst of shaking Matrick’s next drink. Barret sat up on his sofa, sharing a concerned glance with Ashe. Even Ganelon craned his neck to look over, dark eyes gleaming in the swaying lamplight.</span></p>
<p><span>“I don’t …” Matrick glanced around, visibly perplexed. “What? What does that mean, ‘You’re not alone’? Who’s not alone?”</span></p>
<p><span>Slowly, Piglet reached out and placed a pudgy hand on the wizard’s knee. “Where is it?” he asked, almost a whisper.</span></p>
<p><span>And because Clay was looking for it, he saw Matty’s face go granite hard. The king and Moog were close—as close as he and Gabe, perhaps, though they hadn’t known each other for quite so long. The two of them shared a deep kinship, a bond of unflagging (and sometimes ill-advised) cheer under even the most dire circumstance. As distraught as Clay and Gabriel had been to hear of Moog’s infection, Matty would be utterly devastated, which was probably why the wizard had put off telling him.</span></p>
<p><span>“Where is what?” asked Matrick in a voice gone cold and sluggish as a river in winter.</span></p>
<p><em>He knows</em><span>, thought Clay.</span> <em>Of course he knows. He just doesn’t want to believe it.</em></p>
<p><span>Moog blew out a long breath before opening his eyes. He tried on a smile that vanished the moment he opened his mouth to explain. “My foot,” he said quietly. “It’s on my foot.”</span></p>
<p><span>Another silence followed, but this time it was loaded, the ominous hush of an axed tree falling earthward.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick exploded from his chair, charged the wizard, grasped the collar of his robe in one hand and pinned him, squirming, against the side of the ship. “It’s on your fucking</span> <em>foot</em><span>? The rot, you mean? The Heathen’s fucking Touch, right? It’s on your</span> <em>godsdamned foot</em><span>!?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Urk,” said Moog.</span></p>
<p><span>“When were you planning on telling me, huh? When?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Grgh,” the wizard replied.</span></p>
<p><span>“Why are you even here right now?” The king’s voice skirled higher with every word, strained near to breaking by rage and grief and disbelief. “You should be locked in that shitty little tower of yours day and night—day and fucking night—until you find a cure.”</span></p>
<p><span>“There is …” Moog managed to gurgle “ … no cure.”</span></p>
<p><span>“</span><em>THERE’S A FUCKING CURE!</em><span>” Matty screamed. “Do you hear me, you shit-brained sorcerer?</span> <em>There is. A fucking. Cure.</em><span>”</span></p>
<p><span>All at once the fight went out of him, and Matrick sagged to his knees, dragging Moog down with him as he went. The wizard hesitated just a moment before gently wreathing his arms around Matrick’s head and holding the crumpled king while wave after wave of soul-racking sorrow rose and broke, rose and broke, rose and broke within him.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>They landed shortly after outside a dimly lit hamlet that Barret claimed was Downeston but Matrick, who’d doubled his efforts to get shit-faced drunk since Moog broke the news, insisted was Tagglemoor.</span></p>
<p><span>“I was the fucking king here,” he slurred from his seat at the bar. “I know this land like the hand of my back. Er, the hand of … hey, Doc, my glass is empty.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Help yourself,” said Tiamax, who had since retired to a couch of his own.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick reached over the bar, and Clay shook his head at the arachnian. “You’ve doomed us all,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Piglet snorted at that. He’d found an apple somewhere and was crunching happily away. “Let’s play a game,” he suggested. “We each take a turn and say the first thing we ever killed. I’ll go first, okay? Mine was a trash imp who attacked me in Fivecourt.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay slunk into his seat and sipped his beer. He wasn’t a fan of this game.</span></p>
<p><span>“A trash imp?” Ashe scoffed. “They usually run from anything bigger than a rat. Never heard of one attacking a human.”</span></p>
<p><span>Piglet looked abashed. “Yeah, well, someone threw out a whole box of oranges …”</span></p>
<p><span>Ashe was still cackling at that when Moog chimed in. “I was eleven when my dog died. I tried to resurrect him—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, wow,” said Barret.</span></p>
<p><span>“I know—it was stupid. Anyhow, I lit the candles, scribbled the runes … I did everything by the book, or so I thought. But whatever came back … well, it wasn’t Sir Fluffy, I’ll tell you that.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I don’t know what disturbs me more,” said Edwick, who was curled up in the pilot’s chair. “That you dabbled in necromancy or that you named your dog Sir Fluffy.”</span></p>
<p><span>Tiamax chittered gleefully. “Mine was … I don’t even know what it’s called. It was sort of this giant lizard-frog thing covered in spikes, and its tongue was made of fire.”</span></p>
<p><span>“That sounds horrible,” said Matrick. “My first was a gnoll</span> <span>shaman.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Are gnolls the one with horse heads?” asked Piglet.</span></p>
<p><span>“Those are ixil,” said Ashe. “Gnolls are like jackals that stand on two legs.”</span></p>
<p><span>“So this fucker blinded me,” Matrick went on. “Thought I was done for, but then he started laughing when I tripped and fell. Hard to hide with a laugh like that, even from a blind man.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Mine was a harpy,” said Barret. “She actually managed to pick up my little sister and carry her halfway up a mountainside. I climbed up after her, broke her neck, and made harpy egg omelettes for breakfast the whole week after. How about you, Ganelon? Yours was something vicious, I’ll wager.”</span></p>
<p><span>The southerner only shook his head. “Slavers,” he said, but offered nothing further.</span></p>
<p><span>“Mine was a spider,” Ashe said. “A big one.” She smirked across the cabin at Tiamax. “Nasty things, spiders.”</span></p>
<p><span>The arachnian’s mandibles clacked in amusement. “So that’s why my daddy went out for milk and never came home. And here I thought I was just a terrible son.”</span></p>
<p><span>Ashe cackled and turned to Clay. “What about you, Slowhand? Wait, let me guess: Some poor sap spilled beer on your boot and you slaughtered his entire family while he watched.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay took a breath, and was about to confess that the first life he’d taken had belonged to his father, except Gabriel (the only one among them who already knew) finally spoke up and saved him the trouble of explaining why.</span></p>
<p><span>“How far will you take us?” he asked, directing the question toward Barret.</span></p>
<p><span>The frontman cleared his throat and shared brief, meaningful glances with Ashe and Tiamax. “Turnstone Keep,” he said finally. “It’s farther than I’d like, but what are friends for if not risking death by sparkwyrm, or wyvern, or whatever the hell else might kill us out there.”</span></p>
<p><em>More than fair</em><span>, thought Clay.</span> <em>Hell, we owe them plenty already for getting us out of the city in one piece.</em><span> From Fivecourt to the forest’s edge alone was a week’s hard ride, and the</span> <em>Old Glory</em><span> would have them there sometime tomorrow. It wasn’t as far as they could have hoped for, but it was more than they could have expected.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel swiped hair from his eyes. “What about Conthas? Could you drop us there instead?”</span></p>
<p><span>Barret furrowed his brow. “Of course we can. I suppose you’ll be needing to gear up for the journey, eh?</span></p>
<p><span>“That, yeah,” said Gabriel. “But first I need to see a man about a sword.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>