<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter005">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23735a" id="Ref_23735"><span>Chapter Five</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23735a"><span><em>Rocks, Socks, and Sandwiches</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>“So where are we headed?” Clay asked, shortly before they were robbed on the road to Conthas.</span></p>
<p><span>“First things first,” said Gabriel. “I need to get</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> back.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You sold it, you said?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe nodded. “Basically, yeah.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay could scarcely believe they were having this conversation. Gabe’s old sword,</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>, was perhaps the most treasured artifact in all the world. Several thousand years ago (or so the bards generally agreed) a race of rabbit-eared immortals called druins had narrowly escaped the cataclysmic destruction of their own realm by using</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> to carve a path into this one, which, at the time, was a land of savage humans and wild monsters. The druins had little trouble subjugating both, and quickly set about establishing a vast empire known as the Dominion.</span></p>
<p><span>The druins were led by their Archon, Vespian, who disappeared into the Heartwyld when the Dominion, many centuries later, was overrun by its own monstrous hordes. When Saga encountered him close to thirty years ago, the Archon had been searching desperately for his estranged son. Shortly after, Clay and his bandmates had found Vespian again—mortally wounded, he’d confessed, by the very son he’d been pursuing. The dying druin had given his sword to Gabriel upon one condition: that Gabe use it to kill him.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel did so, and the Archon, with his final breath, had said something too quiet to hear, in a language too ancient to comprehend. Whatever those words were, Clay was fairly certain they hadn’t been</span> <em>Sell this if you need to</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>“Basically?” Clay could feel his anger rising, “So who did you</span> <em>basically</em><span> sell your magic sword to?” Clay asked, attempting to sound less exasperated than he actually was.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel glanced over, obviously embarrassed. “Um … Kal has it.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Kal?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Wait—as in Kallorek? Our old booker, Kallorek? The one Valery—”</span></p>
<p><span>“The one Valery left me for, yes,” Gabe finished. “Thanks for reminding me. And I didn’t exactly</span> <em>sell</em><span> him the sword. I was into some people for a fair bit of coin, and Kal offered to bail me out, only I had nothing to offer up as collateral. He said the sword would square us up, but that if I ever needed it to come and ask. So I’m gonna go ask.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay hadn’t seen Kallorek in almost twenty years, and he wouldn’t have said he was looking forward to reacquainting himself with their old booker once again. Kal was loud, brash, and abrasive—sort of like Gabriel, except louder, brasher, and much more abrasive, without Gabe’s natural charm and disarming good looks to offset it all.</span></p>
<p><span>From what little Clay knew of the booker’s sordid past, Kal had been a goon-for-hire on the streets of Conthas before trying his hand at booking, which, it turned out, he had a knack for. It had been Kallorek who had introduced them to Matrick and convinced Ganelon to join the band, Kallorek who booked the gig that led them to Moog. If not for Kal, there’d have been no Saga.</span></p>
<p><span>Still, the man was as mean as a murlog with a mouth full of nails.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay wondered if Valery knew yet that Rose had gone to Castia. He hoped so, for Gabriel’s sake. If there was anything scarier than a Heartwyld Horde, the wrath of a vengeful ex-wife might just be it.</span></p>
<p><span>“So how about the others?” Clay asked. “Have you talked to Moog about this? Or Ganelon?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel shook his head. “I came to you first. Figured you and I together would have an easier time getting the rest of them on board. They trust you, Clay. More than they trust me, anyway. This isn’t the first time I’ve tried to re-form Saga, remember.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah, well, you wanted us to fight in an arena,” Clay reminded him. “Against the gods-knew-what, with ten thousand people watching.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Twenty thousand,” Gabe amended.</span></p>
<p><span>“But what for? What’s the</span> <em>point</em><span>?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I don’t know!” said Gabriel. “That’s just how it’s done these days. People want excitement. They want blood. They want to</span> <em>see</em><span> their heroes in action, not just hear about it from some bard who’s probably making up half the story anyway.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay could only shake his head in disbelief. Didn’t people know that stories, and the legends that inevitably sprang from them, were the best part? The gods knew that bards weren’t good for much besides getting themselves killed and telling lies, but they were undoubtedly masters of both. Clay had lost count of the times he’d bumbled his way through a messy, bloody, terrifying brawl, only to hear a bard convince a crowded tavern it had been the greatest, most glorious battle ever waged between man and beast.</span></p>
<p><span>In stories there were marches without weeping foot sores, swordfights without septic wounds that killed heroes in their sleep. In stories, when a giant was slain, it toppled thunderously to the ground. In reality, a giant died much the same way anything else did: screaming and shitting itself.</span></p>
<p><span>A part of Clay had always suspected the world beyond Coverdale was worsening day by day, but since he hadn’t planned on having much to do with the outside world—aside from pouring drinks and renting beds to folk passing through—he really hadn’t bothered to care. But now that he was rushing headlong back into it … well, he had a feeling things had gotten worse than he’d thought.</span></p>
<p><span>“The point is,” Gabriel went on doggedly, “if you tell the others we can cross the Heartwyld and bring Rose home, they’ll believe you.”</span></p>
<p><span>“If you say so,” Clay said. He saw a bird, or some other bright thing, flit between the trees in his periphery. When he turned to look, though, it was gone. “So what are the others up to?” he asked, eager to change the subject. “I mean besides Matrick, who I assume is still the king of Agria.”</span></p>
<p><span>Before Gabe could answer, a woman sauntered onto the road ahead. Her long brown hair was a mess of loosely bound braids exploding into frizzy tangles. Her clothes were in little better condition, but what they lacked in quality they made up for in quantity, layered upon one another with seemingly no regard for pattern or colour. A longbow was slung over her shoulder, and a single arrow dangled loosely in one hand.</span></p>
<p><span>“Mornin’ boys,” she said. “Lovely day for a stroll, ain’t it?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Or a robbery,” muttered Clay, scanning the forest to either side. Sure enough, he spotted half a dozen others hidden among the trees. All of them women, garbed in the same haphazard fashion as the one who’d blocked their path, and all of them armed, as it were, to the tits.</span></p>
<p><span>“Ya think?” she asked, with the lazy drawl of a Cartean plainswoman. “I prefer rain for a robbery. Not a downpour, mind you—more of a light drizzle. Suits the mood, I think. You ask me, it’s a shame to spoil a sunny day like this with something so crass as petty thievery.” She made a helpless gesture, and then leveled the arrow she was carrying at Clay’s chest. “Yet here we are: pettily thieving.”</span></p>
<p><span>“We have nothing you’d want,” said Gabriel, spreading his hands.</span></p>
<p><span>The brigand flashed a smile. “Oh, we’ll see about that. Now if you’d be so kind as to introduce your weapons to the road and have what’s in those packs out for us to see?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay complied, flinging the Watchmen’s sword to the ground and upending his pack.</span></p>
<p><span>The girl whistled, stepping close to examine the contents. “Ooooh, socks and sandwiches! It’s our lucky day, girls! Come collect!” A chorus of hoots and howls answered from the trees, and her women poured onto the road like a pack of patchwork coyotes. They circled the two men, making threatening gestures with knives and spears and half-drawn bows. Gabriel, flinching with every feinted thrust, turned his own pack upside down.</span></p>
<p><span>To Clay’s surprise, it wasn’t empty. To the surprise of everyone else, it contained only a handful of rocks that clattered to the road at Gabriel’s feet.</span></p>
<p><span>The clamour died almost instantly, and for the first time since she’d appeared the leader of the bandits seemed genuinely displeased.</span></p>
<p><span>“By the Heathen’s hairless balls!” she swore, kicking one of the stones in the grass beside the road. Gabriel started forward as if he meant to dive after it, but the woman’s glare stopped him cold. “</span><em>Rocks?</em><span> Are you bloody serious? Can’t be sapphires, or rubies, or fat silver ignits.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ingots,” Clay mumbled, but the woman wasn’t listening.</span></p>
<p><span>“The gods forbid we waylay some fool with a pack full of diamonds, oh no! But rocks! And socks! And … what’s that there on those sandwiches?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ham.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ham,” the woman growled, as though uttering the name of a bitter enemy. Her knuckles went white on the haft of her bow.</span></p>
<p><span>“What about that there shield?” asked one of the bandits. She pointed to</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> with the tip of her spear.</span></p>
<p><span>“Looks fancy,” said another. “Probably worth a courtmark or two.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay didn’t bother addressing them. Instead, he fixed his gaze on their leader. “The shield’s not going anywhere,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>The woman blinked. “Ain’t it now?” She stepped around him, holding her bow like a walking stick and casting one more disdainful glance at Gabriel’s pitiful pile of stones. “Last I checked you weren’t in no position to … to …” She trailed off. “Well, I’ll be a kobold’s cock ring—is that what I think it is?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Depends what you think it is,” Clay answered.</span></p>
<p><span>“I</span> <em>think</em><span> it’s the shield what belongs to the one they call Slowhand, also known as Clay Cooper,” she said. “I</span> <em>think</em><span> it’s godsdamned</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Well, in that case you’re right,” Clay said. It had been years since anyone had called him</span> <em>Slowhand</em><span>, a nickname he’d earned thanks to his propensity for getting hit first in almost every fight.</span></p>
<p><span>“So it</span> <em>is</em><span> fancy,” exclaimed the bandit who’d suggested so earlier. “We’ll have it off ya, then.” She reached for it, and Clay said a prayer in his head to whichever of Grandual’s gods was in charge of forgiving men who broke women’s wrists before punching them in the throat.</span></p>
<p><span>“Leave it be,” said the woman in charge.</span></p>
<p><span>For a moment the two bandits glared at each other, like predators standing off over a fresh kill, but eventually the leader prevailed, forcing the other to look sullenly away.</span></p>
<p><span>“This shield,” she explained, “was hewn from the heart of a vicious old treant who killed a thousand men before this one”—she pointed at Clay, nearly jabbing his eye out with the arrow in her hand—“chopped him to firewood. This here is Slowhand Clay Cooper. He’s a real live hero!”</span></p>
<p><span>“And we don’t rob heroes?” one of the bandits said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Of course we rob heroes,” said the woman, and with the tip of her arrow sliced neatly through the purse at Clay’s waist. Twenty silver coins spilled onto the dusty road, and the bandits scrambled to recover them.</span></p>
<p><span>The woman raised her voice to a pitch fit for proselytizing. “A sandwich belongs to whoever eats it; a sock to whoever wears it; a coin to whoever has it to spend. But some things are not for the taking. Like this.” She grazed her fingers across</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>’s blistered surface as though laying hands on the tomb of someone sacred. “This here belongs to Clay Cooper and none other, and I’ll grow a tail out my arse before I stoop so low as to rob him of that.”</span></p>
<p><span>She stepped away, shouldering her bow and resuming her place on the road ahead. “</span><em>Sock up, girls!</em><span>” she yelled, and the bandits leapt to action, pulling off boots and pulling Ginny’s handmade socks over whatever they were already wearing. After that they divvied out the sandwiches, then scurried back to the edge of the woods.</span></p>
<p><span>One of them plucked up Clay’s sword as she went. “Does</span> <em>this</em><span> belong to Clay Cooper?” she asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“Not anymore,” said the leader.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel watched the brigands disperse with obvious relief. The leader, looking at Clay, jutted her chin in his direction. “Who’s this tagalong, eh?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay scratched at his beard. “Uh … that’s …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Gabe,” his friend answered for himself, straightening a little as he gave his name.</span></p>
<p><span>The woman gaped. “You mean</span> <em>Golden Gabe?</em><span>” Gabriel nodded, and she shook her head in disbelief. “Well, you ain’t what I expected, I’ll tell you that for free. My daddy told me you were fierce as a lion and cool as a Kaskar pint. My mum used to say you were the prettiest man she ever saw—’ceptin’ my daddy, o’course. But look at you here: meek as a kitten, and so damn—” she frowned like a farmer assessing an ear of rotten corn “—</span><em>old</em><span>.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shrugged. “Time’s a bitch,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>The young woman laughed. “Yeah? Well she clearly has it in for the pair o’you.” She squinted up at the sun. “Anyhoo, my girls and I have some silver to spend, so I’ll thank you for that.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay managed a wan smile. Despite the fact that she’d left them without food, coin, weapons, or with any foreseeable means of keeping his feet warm in the long, cold months to come, Clay couldn’t quite bring himself to dislike the woman. She’d been affable enough (for a brigand, anyway) and she’d had the good grace to leave</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> alone. So there was that.</span></p>
<p><span>“What do they call you?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>Her grin grew wider. “I’ve been called many things,” she said. “A thief. A harlot. A spittin’ image of the goddess Glif herself. But when you tell this tale beside the hearth tonight, you can say it was Lady Jain and the Silk Arrows who took your stuff.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You’re a band?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“We’re band-</span><em>its</em><span>,” she answered. “But I like to think there’s hope for us yet.” She scampered off, and the Silk Arrows melted into the forest behind her.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay let out a breath he didn’t know he’d been holding and looked on despairingly while Gabriel knelt to collect the stones he’d emptied from his pack.</span></p>
<p><span>“Seriously? Is there a reason you’re bringing a handful of rocks on this fool’s quest of ours?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel went to the roadside. When he found the stone Jain had kicked into the grass he examined it as though seeing it for the first time. “These belonged to Rose,” he said. “She used to bring them up from the beach when we lived in Uria. I thought I’d bring them in case sh—”</span></p>
<p><span>“She won’t want them,” Clay snapped. “She won’t care that you brought her a handful of rocks from halfway across the world, Gabe. She’s not a little girl anymore, remember?”</span></p>
<p><span>“—in case she’s dead,” Gabriel finished. “I thought maybe I would put them on her grave. She’d like that, I think.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shut his mouth. He felt, at this particular moment, like an asshole.</span></p>
<p><span>Before long they were shouldering their packs, and to Clay’s very great surprise he found a sandwich still wedged in the bottom of his. He handed half to Gabriel, who raised an eyebrow.</span></p>
<p><span>“That’s lucky.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay snorted. “If you say so. I sure hope this incredible good fortune of ours holds up all the way to Castia.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And back,” remarked Gabriel, too intent on eating to have noticed the sarcasm in Clay’s voice.</span></p>
<p><span>Within minutes Clay swallowed the last of his sandwich, and with it the aching memory of the woman who’d made it. “And back,” he said eventually, without any conviction whatsoever.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>