<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter044">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23852a" id="Ref_23852"><span>Chapter Forty-four</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23852a"><span><em>A Grave in the Clouds</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>Gabriel swore. Moog was yelling something, but the wind was in Clay’s ears and he couldn’t make it out. Sabbatha stood at the centre of the bridge, not moving, not trying at all to save Matrick before the rask killed him. And it</span> <em>would</em><span> kill him, Clay was sure.</span></p>
<p><span>And then suddenly the ettin was there. It snatched the chieftain’s arm and yanked it into the air. The rask took a swipe at Dane’s head, but the ettin caught its other wrist as well. The two monsters wrestled one another, arms outstretched, thrashing like something pinned to a crucifix.</span></p>
<p><span>Dane turned to ask something of Gregor, but they were too far away, the wind too loud, for Clay to hear. The rask curled up on itself, lashed out with a clawed foot, and opened a wide red gash in Gregor’s throat.</span></p>
<p><span>The ettin teetered for a moment, then toppled from the bridge into white oblivion.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay’s heart fell with them, but there wasn’t time to grieve. The rask landed in a crouch. It began scrabbling toward Matrick again when Sabbatha’s voice brought it up short.</span></p>
<p><span>“Come to me.”</span></p>
<p><span>The creature turned its curdled gaze upon the daeva.</span></p>
<p><span>“Come to me,” she repeated, so quiet the wind stopped to listen, so compelling the mountains strained against the shackles of their roots.</span></p>
<p><span>In thrall to a will stronger than its own, the chieftain shambled over to crouch at her feet. The skulls around its neck clattered against one another, grinning like fools. Its expression twitched between fear and reverence, as though Sabbatha was the Winter Queen herself, dark and divine beneath the pale moon of her scythe.</span></p>
<p><em>Umbra</em><span> came down like a guillotine, shearing away the top half of the rask’s head. It managed something like a whimper before it died. It tumbled from the bridge and was swallowed by cloud.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay found himself a step away from the narrow span without knowing how he’d come to be there. He dragged his eyes from the sickening emptiness below. The daeva was turned away from him. The wind had returned, ruffling the plumage on her back, lifting her long black hair like a pennant.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay swallowed. “Sabbatha—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Sabbatha’s dead,” she said. Her right wing snapped out, scattering a handful of black feathers into the air. Clay was watching them whirl away, transfixed, when a shadow fell across his face. He raised his eyes slowly, slowly, like a man condemned gazing up at the executioner’s axe, as the daeva’s supposedly injured left wing extended into the sky.</span></p>
<p><em>Fuck</em><span>, he thought.</span> <em>Fuck, fuck, fuck.</em></p>
<p><span>“Larkspur,” he said gloomily. “Welcome back.”</span></p>
<p><span>She turned on him. “Thank you.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay pulled his gaze from the not-at-all-injured wing and looked across at her. “How long?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>The grin that split her face was a feral thing, terribly beautiful. “Longer than you’d think,” she said, which wasn’t really the answer he’d been hoping for.</span></p>
<p><em>All that pointless deception, all those lies we told …</em><span>Clay’s mind was reeling, struggling to grasp the implication of what she was telling him.</span> <em>All this time she was playing us, patient as a circling vulture, waiting for a moment like this.</em></p>
<p><span>“And now?” he asked, though he already knew the answer.</span></p>
<p><span>Larkspur’s gaze drifted beyond his shoulder. Ganelon had not only held the rasks at bay, but had driven them off altogether. He arrived short of breath, but otherwise unscathed, and the daeva’s smile broadened as her eyes met his. “Now I take your king,” she said.</span></p>
<p><span>The southerner made no reply. Even Gabe had been rendered speechless, though Clay assumed his next words would be</span> <em>I told you so.</em></p>
<p><span>Something behind the daeva drew his attention: He saw Kit emerge from the fog on the far side of the bridge. His arms hung limp by his sides, and something—the rask chieftain, probably—had savaged his throat. He appeared lucid, however, and one look at Larkspur told him all he needed to know. The ghoul started up the bridge at a jog.</span></p>
<p><span>“So what now?” Clay asked, playing for time. “You’ll fly him to Agria all by yourself? That’s a long way, and dangerous.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You’ve seen my ship in the sky, Slowhand. My</span> <em>real</em><span> ship,” she emphasized, “not that floating brothel you stole from Kallorek. Where is he, by the way? His wife said you brought him along. You didn’t leave him on board to burn, did you?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay mulled over a few lengthy explanations, none of which resembled the truth. He settled on “No.”</span></p>
<p><span>The daeva’s smirk returned, tugging at something in his</span> <span>chest. She’d been suppressing her allure, he realized. Smothering it so she would seem like less of a threat. But now it burned, and</span> <span>it was all Clay could do not to offer himself up to the flame.</span></p>
<p><span>“My men will find me,” she said. “I’ll make sure of that. Now step back, Slowhand. I like you, but if you try and cross I will cut you down.”</span></p>
<p><span>Her threat drew a sour laugh from Gabriel. “You are un-fucking-believable, do you know that? You’ll</span> <em>cut him down</em><span>? He saved your bloody life, Sabbatha.”</span></p>
<p><span>The daeva snarled, “Sabbatha’s—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah, Sabbatha’s dead. I heard you the first time. It’s a</span> <span>pity, really, because this Larkspur character is a real bitch. I</span> <span>mean, honestly, how</span> <em>evil</em><span> are you? After all we’ve been through,</span> <span>you’d really</span> <em>kill</em><span> Clay? You’d drag Matrick all the way back to Lilith for a fucking</span> <em>payday</em><span>? She’ll kill him!”</span></p>
<p><span>Kit was edging around Matrick’s prone body. Clay had no idea what the ghoul could do if he managed to reach Larkspur, but he hoped it would be enough to distract her, if only for a moment.</span></p>
<p><span>“He’s doomed already,” said Larkspur. “You all are. Because of you, Gabriel. Because you haven’t figured it out yet.”</span></p>
<p><span>“What’s that?” Gabe asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“That this isn’t a story,” she told him. Her eyes climbed the cloud-mantled mountains around them. “There is no happy ending. And you aren’t a hero. You’re just a deluded old mercenary who—”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay started running the moment Kit hit her from behind. Larkspur stumbled forward, nearly falling from the bridge, but she beat her wings once and managed to stay balanced. She drove the butt of her scythe into Kit’s chest, propelling him back, then launched an attack at Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>He dropped into a slide, arching backward on his knees with his arms flung wide as</span> <em>Umbra</em><span> carved the air mere inches above his nose. Clay heard the vertebrae pop down the length of his spine, and all the pain in his back vanished in an instant. He sprang up to his feet, launched a savage punch with his shield arm that knocked the daeva onto her back. A step, and Clay was directly above her.</span> <em>Wraith</em><span> was in his hand, so cold it seared the flesh of his palm, and he brought the hammer—</span></p>
<p><span>“Wait,</span> <em>please</em><span>,” begged Larkspur.</span></p>
<p><span>There was no power in the words. No compulsion. Only fear. A woman’s desperate plea for mercy. And had the man above her been anyone but Clay Cooper it would not have been enough.</span></p>
<p><span>But it was.</span></p>
<p><span>He wavered, but Larkspur didn’t. The scythe tore an arc between them and Clay watched, uncomprehending, as his hand fell off.</span></p>
<p><span>His jaw dropped as though it were cast in lead. He was dimly aware of someone yelling his name. He blinked, trying to focus, and saw blood on the pale skin of Larkspur’s face, blood on the pure white snow, blood frothing from the stump of his arm with every slow beat of his heart.</span></p>
<p><span>His hand was gone. His hammer was gone. They slid over the edge and vanished from sight.</span></p>
<p><span>“Clay …” He saw Larkspur mouth the words, but it was Ginny’s voice he heard. She made to rise and he staggered away from her, except one foot slipped on the ice and the other stepped onto nothing at all.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay fell headlong into white cloud.</span></p>
<p><span>And so the Cold Road took its toll.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>