<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter052">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23876a" id="Ref_23876"><span>Chapter Fifty-two</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23876a"><span><em>Sheer Dumb Luck</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><em>Vellichor</em><span> carved a swathe of waist-high, windblown grass as it rose to meet the druin’s singing sword, and the two blades met with a sound like glass breaking. Clay moved into the space behind Gabe, aware that several more blows were being exchanged just beyond his shoulder. When the charging minotaur was just strides away he stepped out to meet it, angling</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> so the beast bounced off and went careening toward Lastleaf.</span></p>
<p><span>The Heathen leapt out of its path, muttering a curse in druic as his sword quietly echoed at his side. The minotaur’s stumbling momentum took it right into the lava pit. It succeeded in getting an arm down before falling in, but bellowed in wordless agony as the limb turned to char and its mane caught fire.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel blinked, sparing a glance at Clay. “Thanks.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shrugged. “Worth a shot.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Did you know,” said Lastleaf, as casually as if the three of them were rocking in chairs on a sun-dappled porch, “my father told me once that to die by</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>’s blade is the only way our kind can return to our own realm.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay recalled Shadow saying something to that effect back in the Heartwyld.</span> <em>It is a key</em><span>, he’d told them, without realizing the only door it opened was death itself.</span></p>
<p><span>“You’ll find out soon enough,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>The Heathen’s harsh laughter pealed into the air above the battlefield. “I think not,” he said liltingly.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe feinted low, drawing Lastleaf’s blade humming toward his knees, but when</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> stabbed suddenly high the druin turned so the edge missed his face by inches. By then the Heathen’s own weapon was slicing toward Gabriel’s side. Clay managed to get</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> in its path, and gasped when</span> <em>Madrigal</em><span> sheared a corner of his shield right off.</span></p>
<p><span>“Son of a</span> <em>bitch</em><span>,” Clay swore, and then yelped as Gabriel shoved him hard.</span></p>
<p><span>The Heathen’s sword went</span> <em>shing</em><span>ing through what would have been Clay’s neck had Clay not been tumbling backward onto his ass.</span></p>
<p><span>A thought struck him suddenly, for no reason, and was of no use whatsoever except to explain why a piece of his most treasured possession was lying near his feet:</span> <em>The noise his sword makes … it’s cutting the air.</em><span> His next thought was more of an observation, really:</span> <em>Gabe just saved your life</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>Currently Gabriel was trying to save his own. With no one else to steal his focus, Lastleaf was pressing the attack, using the prescience to anticipate his rival’s every move. The Heathen’s sword was a howling blur, ringing in rapid succession against</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> as Gabe relied on instinct alone to defend himself.</span></p>
<p><span>From the ground it was hard to tell whether or not the battle was going in their favour. More than half of the matriarch’s brood were dead, but so was Aric Slake, whose head was admiring his body from several feet away. He saw May Drummond die (again) on the tip of a wyvern’s tail.</span></p>
<p><span>An unfortunate side effect of Moog’s Twining Staff was that once it was done clobbering one’s enemies it more often than not turned on whoever was holding it, at least until its enchantment wore off. The wizard was currently locked in mortal combat with his own weapon as each of them attempted to throttle the other into submission.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick had somehow got himself onto the wyvern matriarch’s back. He was straddling one of Ashatan’s wings and attempting to push a dagger between her black iron scales. Ashatan herself was preoccupied by Larkspur, who scored a deep gash in the matriarch’s head before taking to the sky. The wyvern roared again and vaulted up after her, forcing Matrick to abandon his efforts to harm her and simply hold on for the ride.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay didn’t see Ganelon until</span> <em>Syrinx</em><span> was cutting a seemingly inevitable path toward the Heathen’s midsection. Warned by the prescience, Lastleaf turned at the last second and brought his sword chopping down with enough strength to spin the axe sideways before it hit him.</span></p>
<p><span>It still hit him, though.</span></p>
<p><span>The blow drew a breathless grunt from the druin. He lost his grip on</span> <em>Madrigal</em><span> and was thrown several yards through the air, yet somehow managed to land skidding on the soles of his feet. His helmet had been knocked askew, so Lastleaf tore it off and tossed it behind him.</span></p>
<p><span>Watching it bounce away, Clay was shocked to see the minotaur who’d charged him earlier climbing doggedly to its feet. Its mane was singed to stubble, and its left arm fizzled at the elbow in a cauterized stump, but it seemed hell-bent on getting back in the fight.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay was more immediately concerned by the fact that Lastleaf was pulling the straps of all three scabbards over his head. He let the two empty scabbards fall and curled his long fingers around the hilt of his third and final sword.</span></p>
<p><span>“The gorgon told me why you’ve come,” he said to Gabriel, who was using this brief respite to try to catch his breath. “If I kill you I will find her, this daughter of yours. I’ll make certain she suffers.”</span></p>
<p><span>It was Ganelon who answered, green eyes glaring over the edge of his axe. “If,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>The Heathen’s sneer wavered, but so far as Clay could tell it had less to do with the warrior’s remark than with the prospect of unsheathing</span> <em>Tamarat</em><span>. Lastleaf’s hands were trembling, his white-furred ears pressed flat. He seemed genuinely</span> <span>reluctant to draw it, and Clay wondered if he’d had cause to do</span><span> so since the day he’d used it to defend himself from his even more monstrous father.</span></p>
<p><span>But then Ganelon took a step toward him and Lastleaf had no choice but to pull</span> <em>Tamarat</em><span> out for all to see.</span></p>
<p><span>Except that Clay</span> <em>couldn’t</em><span> see it—not really.</span></p>
<p><span>His mind told him the blade was black, a colourless void, as empty as a sky without stars. But when he looked into it there was simply … nothing there. Whereas</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span> served as a window to a realm beyond this one,</span> <em>Tamarat</em><span> was a fragment of utter oblivion.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay hoped to hell Ganelon could see it, because the Heathen took two running steps and leapt, snarling, at the warrior, his blade a black smear against the sky. Gabriel moved to Ganelon’s left side, leading with</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>’s bright edge and forcing Lastleaf to fight on two fronts.</span></p>
<p><em>Let’s make it three</em><span>, thought Clay, surging to his feet, determined to help in whatever way he could. He hoisted his shield—</span></p>
<p><span>The minotaur hit him like a wagon full of rocks rolling downhill. Clay saw the battlefield blur, and the next moment he was slewing sideways on the ground. His ears were ringing, his jaw ached, and Clay wondered whether or not he’d hit his head—he couldn’t remember, so probably yes.</span></p>
<p><span>“You fucking—” he managed to say before his assailant fell on top him. The beast was surprisingly heavy for something half his height and missing most of an arm. Its bloody snout pressed wetly against his mouth, and Clay’s nostrils filled with the scent of burnt fur and overcooked cabbage.</span></p>
<p><span>Groaning with the effort, he used</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> to shove the minotaur aside, and then continued to hammer it with his shield until all but its twitching hooves had stopped moving.</span></p>
<p><span>He sat up, disoriented.</span></p>
<p><span>Saw Gabe and Ganelon trade strikes too fast to follow with the Autumn Son and his near-invisible sword. Saw Moog holding his staff by the tail as it walloped a flock of reanimated skeletons into ash. Saw Barret stomping on an orc’s head and Tiamax the arachnian cracking a wyvern’s jaws with the strength of six hands.</span></p>
<p><span>The stitches in Clay’s face had come open again, and his left cheek was scraped raw. He climbed groggily to his feet, trying to reconcile in his head how he’d spin this story to Tally if he lived to tell it.</span></p>
<p><em>What’s that, honey? What was I doing while Uncle Gabe was duelling a god with all of civilization at stake? Why, I was wrestling in the muck with an exceptionally tenacious cow.</em></p>
<p><span>He hefted his shield again and hobbled as fast as he could toward the only fight that mattered. He could hardly believe it was still going: Gabriel was among the fastest, most cunning fighters Clay had ever known, and Ganelon was the strongest, fiercest warrior … well, maybe</span> <em>ever</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>But Lastleaf had been alive for more than a millennium, and had spent the majority of those years skulking in the Heartwyld, evading the pursuit of his father and imposing his will upon creatures that would give even the most stalwart hero a lifetime of sleepless nights. He wouldn’t go down easily.</span></p>
<p><em>He might not go down at all</em><span>, Clay was thinking, when a rough snort behind him made him turn to see the world’s most obstinate minotaur attempting to rise.</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, c’mon,” he moaned. “Stay down. Just … please, stay down.” He took an involuntary step toward it and the beast whirled on him, glowering with bulging, bloodshot eyes. It snorted again, louder this time, and distinctly more threatening. In another world Clay might have offered to buy it a beer and call it a draw, but it was stamping one cloven hoof and weaving its fire-scarred head from side to side, so instead he squared himself to it and sighed.</span></p>
<p><span>He thought briefly of Ganelon and what the warrior had done to those men in Mazala; of Larkspur’s revenge upon the children who’d made her childhood a living hell; of Lastleaf and his war against a Republic built on the blood of so-called monsters; and of himself, who would likely have died a monster if it wasn’t for one woman’s love.</span></p>
<p><em>Two women, actually.</em></p>
<p><span>“You know what?” Clay said. “Never mind. You are what you are. So come at me.”</span></p>
<p><span>Whether the minotaur understood him or not, it charged: broken horned and burnt, one-armed and weaponless; its hooves churned the bloody earth below as it bowed its head.</span></p>
<p><span>It would occur to Clay mere moments later that the fights that seemed to matter most weren’t always the ones that did, and that sometimes the fate of worlds was decided by something so arbitrary as sheer dumb luck.</span></p>
<p><span>He dropped as the minotaur rammed its hoary head into</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>, then rolled onto his back and let the beast’s own impetus propel it into the air, whereupon it, quite unintentionally, blindsided Lastleaf and sent them both pitching headlong into the magma pool.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay scrambled onto his stomach just as the druin began screaming, and an instant later the corpse of the wyvern matriarch slammed into the ground nearby like a giant’s hammer. A veil of dust roiled out from where the creature landed, forcing Clay to squint as he rose and shambled over to where Gabe and Ganelon were standing.</span></p>
<p><span>The southerner was craning his neck, peering through the gale of grit at the sky above, and Clay saw him grin as Larkspur, holding a bloodied</span> <em>Umbra</em><span> in one hand and a harried-looking Matrick in the other, came gliding down on widespread wings.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog was there by the time she landed. The Twining Staff had gone dormant again, and the wizard fed it into the mouth of his sack as he beamed at the sickly-looking king. “That looked fun!”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick smiled wanly in response, and Clay recognized a man doing his damnedest not to empty his guts on the ground.</span></p>
<p><span>“Well done,” Ganelon told the daeva, as Gabriel wandered off toward the glowing pool.</span></p>
<p><span>“You too,” she said, taking in the jumble of corpses—both mercenary and wyvern—littering the nearby vicinity.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shifted his wounded arm in its sling. “If you’re looking for Lastleaf—”</span></p>
<p><span>“He’s gone.”</span></p>
<p><em>Of course he is</em><span>, said the part of Clay’s mind that knew the druin’s death had come too easy.</span></p>
<p><span>Sure enough, when he joined Gabriel by the frothing edge of the pit and looked within, the only corpse Clay saw was the one belonging to the most stubborn, spirited, suitably bull-headed minotaur he had ever known.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog touched a bruise purpling around one of his eyes. “You didn’t happen to ask him what a cathiil was, did you? It’s been bugging me since the gorgon’s place.”</span></p>
<p><span>“He can’t have gotten far,” Gabe said, ignoring the wizard. “Let’s finish breaking this siege, shall we?”</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon used his axe to point over the frontman’s shoulder. “I think it just broke.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay looked beyond the seething limit of the Horde at the city of Castia, whose gates were grinding slowly open. A pair of druin skyships emerged from behind the walls, rising like bloated bees from the corpse of a flower.</span></p>
<p><span>The siege was indeed broken. Those who had lived without hope for so long were coming, at last, to claim it.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>