<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter033">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23819a" id="Ref_23819"><span>Chapter Thirty-three</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23819a"><span><em>The Flesheater</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>When Clay woke it was still dark. All but a few of the coloured mushrooms had lost their uncanny light. The bats had left to hunt whatever it was glow-in-the-dark bats hunted. Glow-in-the-dark mice, he supposed. Matrick and Taino were engaged in a clamorous snoring contest. Ganelon and Moog were sound asleep, and even Gabriel, who barely slept most nights, had managed to drift off.</span></p>
<p><span>Larkspur—or Sabbatha, as she’d called herself earlier—was sitting with her arms around her knees, one wing folded over her shoulder like a blanket. The other, the broken one, loomed crookedly behind her. She was near enough to what remained of the fire that Clay could see her face: the strong jaw, the arched brows, the large dark eyes that gleamed like starlit pools by the light of dying embers. She didn’t notice he’d awoken until Clay quietly cleared his throat.</span></p>
<p><span>It seemed an effort to pull her gaze away from whatever it was she’d been watching with her mind’s eye. When she did she smiled, and Clay felt his heart skip a beat.</span></p>
<p><span>“I had dreams,” she said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Me too.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Good ones?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had heard his mother whimpering in the dark. “Not really, no.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Me neither,” she said. “Though I remembered a part of my past.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay’s mouth went dry. His mind started running scenarios that began with Larkspur lunging across the fire and mostly ended with him dying at her steel-shod hands. He considered going for his hammer, which lay just out of reach, or maybe diving for Ganelon instead, since waking the warrior was probably his best hope of survival. Finally he swallowed his fear and asked, as evenly as he could, “Like what?”</span></p>
<p><span>The daeva chewed her lip for a moment. “Do you know how my kind are born?” she asked.</span></p>
<p><em>Eggs?</em><span> he almost guessed, but instead just shook his head no.</span></p>
<p><span>“Immaculate conception.”</span></p>
<p><span>“What? That’s impossible,” he blurted, before considering whether or not it was polite to do so.</span></p>
<p><span>She laughed quietly. “My father’s reaction was much the same, I’m told. He was away in Phantra when I was conceived, and when he came back north to find my mother pregnant he nearly killed her. He nearly killed me, too. When I was born he left me in the snow overnight as an offering to the Frost Mother.”</span></p>
<p><span>“But you lived,” said Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>“I lived,” she confirmed. “My father found me the next morning wrapped up in my wings—hungry, but otherwise hale. He left me alone after that. He must have assumed I was blessed by the gods.”</span></p>
<p><span>What was it about fathers, Clay wondered, that compelled so many of them to test their children? To insist that a daughter, or a son, prove themselves worthy of a love their mother offered without condition?</span></p>
<p><span>“But as I grew older,” Sabbatha told him, “the other children in my village were afraid of me. They thought me a freak, a monster. They called me ‘harpy.’” Her grin turned savage. “I didn’t mind. I even found myself a nest—a cave on a steep hill where I went to be alone. But eventually, when they realized their words had no power to hurt me, they used fists instead, or stones, and neither the gods nor all the feathers in the world could protect me then.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay couldn’t say for sure whether the sympathy he felt for her was real or artificial, but at some point while she was speaking he had ceased suspecting she was about to attack him. “Is that what you dreamt of?” he asked. “Being tortured by those kids?”</span></p>
<p><span>The shake of her head was almost imperceptible. “I dreamt of killing them, of hunting them down one by one.” She appeared to take no pleasure in saying this—insofar as Clay could tell—but nor did she seem aghast at this shadow of herself revealed by Taino’s drug. Her voice was strangely even, as though she were still half immersed in the dream, dictating out loud what she was seeing with her mind’s eye.</span></p>
<p><span>“The first was a boy named Borys, the village headsman’s son. He had a knife, which he held against my throat while he groped me. He would have done worse, I think, but I took his knife and used it to kill him.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shifted where he sat. The mudweed had alleviated the gnawing pain in his back, but the daeva’s confession made it hard to get comfortable, even on the bed of plush moss. “Borys had it coming, sounds like.”</span></p>
<p><span>Sabbatha’s eyes flickered briefly to his. “Of course he did. And so did the next girl, Sakra. She’d thrown me down a flight of stairs once, so I pushed her off a cliff. And after that was Crystof, who was especially cruel. He beat me worse than any of them, and so I tied him to a tree, and I used a rock to break him, little by little, until he died.”</span></p>
<p><span>One of the mushrooms above them lost its lustrous blue glow, leaving the daeva’s face bathed in ruddy red light. “Misha used to cut me. She was younger than me, and smaller, but she’d have one of the others hold me down. Once she pricked my eyes with the point of a nail and threatened to blind me, so I …” Sabbatha trailed off, unwilling or unable to divulge the gruesome details of whatever revenge she had taken upon the girl. “She screamed and screamed, and in the end she begged for mercy. I don’t know why … but I let her go. I might have made her promise not to tell the others who it was that hurt her, but I didn’t. I think I wanted them to find out … to know what I was capable of.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had a fair idea as to how this story ended. He wondered if all of this had been a part of Sabbatha’s dream, or whether, like himself, she had glimpsed her past in a succession of broken shards and was only now piecing them together.</span></p>
<p><span>The daeva blinked several times in rapid succession. Her tongue slipped out to wet her lips and Clay felt his breath</span> <span>catch. “I spent the following night in my nest. By the time I</span><span/> <span>returned to the village my parents were dead, our home burned</span><span> to the ground. They had cut my father’s head off, left his body in the yard for the dogs. My mother was hung by her feet from a tree and pelted to death with stones.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And yet they spared you,” Clay observed.</span></p>
<p><span>“Apparently so. Though I can’t recall why, or what happened next. It’s like … a veil, or a fog I just can’t see through.”</span></p>
<p><span>The last of the fungal lamps went out, so that only the seething embers remained by which to see. Somewhere beyond the shroud a wild thing howled in the dark as it killed, or was killed. It was hard to tell one way or another with bloodcurdling howls.</span></p>
<p><span>“Maybe it’s for the best if I don’t remember who I was before,” she said. In the dark her voice sounded closer than before, more intimate.</span></p>
<p><span>“Why is that?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“Because I can’t have been a very good person. After what happened to my parents, and what I did to those children, what could I have become but a monster?”</span></p>
<p><em>What else indeed?</em><span> Clay knew a few things about trying to escape your past. He was remembering the look on Raff Lackey’s face as the snake in his fist had pumped poison into his veins.</span></p>
<p><em>I’ll be waiting for ya, Cooper</em><span>, the old merc had told him,</span> <em>along with all the rest</em><span>. Whatever vengeance Raff’s ghost had planned, it would be standing at the rear of a very long and disgruntled line. Just now, though, he was imagining Sabbatha being greeted in death by her own host of accusing wraiths, the first of which would be three ruthless, empty-eyed children …</span></p>
<p><span>“You seem nice enough to me,” he said after a while.</span></p>
<p><span>Larkspur twitched her broken wing in what Clay recognised as a shrug. “Yeah, well, I suppose that’s what matters now. Taino said my memories might never fully return, or they might come back little by little, or else suddenly, all at once.”</span></p>
<p><span>Broadly ambiguous prognoses were exactly the reason Clay didn’t put much faith in doctors—witchdoctors in particular. In this case he hoped the former supposition was accurate: that the woman who had glared so hatefully at him in Conthas and then dive-bombed them during a lightning storm was gone for good. He couldn’t exactly tell</span> <em>her</em><span> that, however, and so was about to offer something clichéd and conciliatory when he heard the sound of a footfall behind him.</span></p>
<p><span>Glancing over his shoulder, Clay was dismayed to find the tip of a sharpened stone spear hovering scant inches from his nose. A face floated in the gloom behind it, skeleton-pale, and a word wriggled into his mind like a worm in an apple’s rotted core.</span></p>
<p><span>The word was</span> <em>cannibal</em><span>.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>The cannibal’s name, it turned out, was Jeremy. His grasp of the common tongue was limited, but he and Moog were able to communicate through a combination of frantic gestures and words repeated very loudly and very slowly.</span></p>
<p><span>“He’s actually quite a nice fellow,” the wizard told them, as Jeremy and Taino wandered off among the tall plants in the yard. The troll could understand the tribesman’s guttural pidgin, and they had evidently met each other before. “He’s a forager from the Boneface Clan. Hence the skull painted on his face, I guess. Their village is very close to here, he says.”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick whistled quietly. “Good thing we didn’t land there. You’d have been lucky to find our bones. And maybe L—” he caught himself before uttering the name</span> <em>Larkspur</em><span> “—maybe Sabbatha’s wings.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I didn’t even know cannibals were a real thing,” she admitted. “Do they actually eat people?”</span></p>
<p><span>“They do, yes,” Moog told her. “Though they aren’t fussy</span> <span>about it. They’ll eat chicken, beef, pork—anything that bleeds,</span><span> really. Often they’ll just skirmish with neighbouring clans and eat whoever is unlucky enough to die.”</span></p>
<p><span>“That’s mad,” said Larkspur.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog shrugged. “Perhaps, but in Grandual we kill each other all the time, for all sorts of stupid reasons. The Ferals, as we call them, use the bones of the dead for tools, the teeth and ears for jewellery, the skin for tents and clothing, and eat pretty much everything else, including the eyeballs. It’s all very efficient, if you ask me.”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick put his arm around the wizard’s slim shoulders. “See, now</span> <em>that’s</em><span> mad.”</span></p>
<p><span>“They don’t eat vegetables, or fruit,” the wizard continued. “They deem plucking your food off a tree as cowardly. Consequently, a great many of them have scurvy.”</span></p>
<p><span>Larkspur looked bewildered. “Scurvy? Is it contagious?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Gods, no,” said Moog. “But I wouldn’t go kissing one if I were you. Eating people gives you bloody rotten breath, as you might imagine.”</span></p>
<p><span>She did imagine, and made a disgusted face that Clay, despite himself, found utterly adorable.</span></p>
<p><span>“So what is he doing here?” asked Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog smoothed the silky length of his beard against the front of his robe. “Their chieftain is very sick, apparently. Jeremy was sent to ask Taino for a cure.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Well, he’s the man to see,” said Matrick. “That mudweed of his is magic, like he said. All my bruises disappeared, all my cuts scabbed up, and my arm feels good as new.”</span></p>
<p><span>“My wing feels better,” Larkspur mentioned. “Not great, but better. Can someone remind me why I was flying in a thunderstorm again?”</span></p>
<p><span>“We should get moving,” said Gabriel, ignoring her question. “We’ve wasted enough time already. I still think we should have walked through the night. We’d be back in the sky by now.”</span></p>
<p><span>Jeremy and Taino returned from their stroll. Besides the skull painted on his face, the cannibal’s whole body was riddled with scars and covered with a chalky green powder that served both as camouflage and to make his flesh taste terrible if he fell in battle with the enemy. He used his spear like a walking stick and carried a bundle of mudweed stalks in a sling on his back.</span></p>
<p><span>Taino gave them each a gangly hug farewell. “Walk gud, y’ear?”</span></p>
<p><span>“We hear,” said Matrick.</span></p>
<p><span>Jeremy, who was staring at Larkspur with what Clay hoped was lustful (as opposed to literal) hunger, nearly jumped out of his skin when Moog began yelling in his face. “US GOING,” the wizard told him, accompanying the words with elaborate hand-motions. “BACK TO SHIP. NICE MEETING YOU. GOOD LUCK CURING CHIEF.”</span></p>
<p><span>The Feral responded in his own incomprehensible language. “KI TOBARA. IK OOKIBAN DONO GARUK.”</span></p>
<p><span>“He said he will come with us part of the way,” Moog translated—unnecessarily, since Jeremy had pointed at them and used his fingers to indicate</span> <em>walking</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>“IKKI DOOKA PUBARU. KOO PASSA PIKAPA.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Also, we’re invited to the Boneface village for lunch.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Lunch with cannibals?” scoffed Matrick. “Over my dead body.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay clapped him on the shoulder as they headed out. “I think that’s the general idea,” he said.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>