<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter015">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23765a" id="Ref_23765"><span>Chapter Fifteen</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23765a"><span><em>Breakfast with Thieves</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>They stopped for a rest shortly before sunrise. Matrick offered to keep watch while the others snatched an hour or two of precious sleep, and so Clay set his back against the mossy corpse of a fallen tree and was out within minutes.</span></p>
<p><span>He dreamt of home, imagining his house filled with frogs of every shape and size as Tally pulled more and more from inside her pockets. Next he was swimming in Kallorek’s so-called pool, when suddenly one of the tiled walls fell away and he plunged over the edge into black oblivion. Finally Clay dreamt of Jain, the woman who had robbed him and Gabriel on the road to Conthas. He saw her standing over him in those silly patchwork clothes, a bow in her hands and a great big smile on her dirt-smeared face.</span></p>
<p><span>“Mornin’, Slowhand.”</span></p>
<p><span>He blinked. Could you blink in your dreams?</span></p>
<p><span>“Rise and shine, man!” Jain kicked him gently with her boot, and he glimpsed one of his wife’s knitted socks peeking out the top.</span></p>
<p><span>His voice was a hoarse croak. “I’m not dreaming.”</span></p>
<p><span>The brigand snorted at that. “Course not. Or I wouldn’t be wearing so many bleedin’ clothes now, would I?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay straightened and glanced around. Jain’s gang—the Silk Arrows—were scattered around the camp. They were all of them armed, but none looked particularly threatening. In fact it looked as though they’d been here for a while before Clay had finally stirred awake. They’d long since relieved Matrick of what valuables he’d managed to salvage from his funeral, jamming rings onto already ring-crowded fingers and adding chains of gold and silver to the numerous scarves and shawls around their necks. A few were sitting with Moog while the wizard regaled them with some story that required him to flail his arms like a pair of flapping wings. His audience laughed and clapped, and so Moog—an entertainer at heart—redoubled his efforts, which drew another bout of laughter from his crowd.</span></p>
<p><span>He spotted Gabriel sitting by a small fire, eating eggs out of a frying pan. When his friend saw that Clay was awake he swallowed and set down his fork. “We’re being robbed,” he said matter-of-factly.</span></p>
<p><span>“Evidently.” Clay rubbed at his eyes to clear them. He looked at Matrick, who was leaning sullenly against a nearby tree. “Weren’t you supposed to be keeping watch?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Sure was,” said Matty. “I</span> <em>watched</em><span> them appear out of nowhere with bows.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay frowned. “Fair enough.”</span></p>
<p><span>Jain prodded him again with her foot. “Up and at ’em, Slowhand. There’s eggs and bacon—maybe even a few sausages left, if your friends haven’t gobbled them up already. Just cause we’re taking your stuff don’t mean we can’t be civilized about it. We’ve had some fair good fortune since we saw you last. More than you anyway, from what I’ve heard.”</span></p>
<p><span>Sure enough, the profusion of garments on Jain’s person</span> <em>did</em><span> seem to be of slightly higher quality than when he’d seen her last week. When she saw him eyeing her black silk gloves, the bandit raised her hand and pushed her sleeve up to the elbow to show it off.</span></p>
<p><span>“You like?” she asked. Jain had cut the tips off the thumb and the first two fingers so she could draw an arrow without losing her grip. Clay had to admire the woman’s pragmatism, if not her fashion sense. “Scooped these off some highborn lady on her way to the king’s funeral,” she said, before kissing the exposed fingers and touching her heart. “May the Summer Lord light his way.”</span></p>
<p><em>She hasn’t recognized Matrick,</em><span> Clay realized.</span> <em>They don’t know who he is.</em><span> Better to keep it that way, he figured. Once Lilith discovered their deception—and she would, eventually, of that he had no doubt—she would come after them like a dragon who’d counted its hoard and found it a penny short. Which was to say: swiftly, and with terrible vengeance.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay climbed slowly to his feet. His back ached, and his</span> <span>knees popped when he straightened them. He was careful not to make any sudden move that Jain or one of her lady-thugs might perceive as aggression. Getting an arrow in the chest was a sure way to spoil a good breakfast, and if he was going to be robbed he might as well score some bacon in the deal.</span></p>
<p><span>Jain led him to the fire, where he settled down beside Gabe. She passed him a skillet and a crude wooden fork before claiming one for herself and squatting to eat. The eggs were cold, but there was a thick slab of salted pork belly and a few fat sausages that were still warm when he bit into them. All in all, a pretty square meal.</span></p>
<p><span>“The birds say there’s a bounty out for the pair o’ you,” said Jain, nodding toward him and Gabe.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay froze with his mouth full. He glanced over at Gabriel, hoping to catch his friend’s eye, but Saga’s frontman was staring determinedly into his empty skillet.</span></p>
<p><span>Jain chuckled and waved her fork dismissively. “No need to piss your britches, Slowhand. I ain’t no bounty hunter. There’s a long shot between the occasional robbery and trading a man’s life for a few lousy courtmarks. Heck, I’d bet the Maiden’s Virtue there’s a fair price on my head to boot.” She snorted a laugh. “I’d be insulted otherwise.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Do you think it was Lilith?” asked Matrick, before Clay could tell him to keep his stupid, stupid mouth shut.</span></p>
<p><span>Jain’s brow furrowed. “You mean the Ice Queen of Agria? Why would …” She cocked her head at Matrick. The king’s face was still mangled from his fall. The welt beneath his left eye had swollen to the size of a plum, sealing his eye shut. Clay held his breath, praying the brigand wouldn’t identify the battered old rogue, but the light of awareness crept across her face, certain as a new day dawning. “Well fuck me with a Phantran’s salty dick, you’re Matty Skulldrummer!”</span></p>
<p><span>The king grinned sheepishly. “I used to be,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Jain laughed and slapped her knee. “My daddy always said you were the fastest son’bitch with a knife there ever was. Said you could carve up a turkey ’fore the thing even knew it was dead!”</span></p>
<p><span>“And eat it, too,” said Matrick, patting his prodigious gut.</span></p>
<p><span>Jain got another laugh at that. She wolfed down another sausage and licked grease from her bare fingers. When she’d finished she asked Clay, “So what’s all this about, eh? Last we met I figured you and not-so-Golden Gabe here for a couple of old coots bound to get your rocks off in Conthas—and yet here you are: halfway to Fivecourt, with Magic Moog and Matty Skulldrummer in tow. Now your wizard’s clearly a few arrows short of a full quiver”—as if to prove her point Moog was now jumping in circles and quacking like a duck—“but why would a summer-kissed king shirk his crown to slum it in the woods with you three? Unless …” She paused to swallow, and a wry grin tugged at the corner of her mouth. “Don’t tell me you’re getting the band back together?”</span></p>
<p><span>“We’re getting the band back together,” Clay admitted. Gods, but it sounded dumb when he said it out loud.</span></p>
<p><span>The brigand’s next question was obvious. “What the hell for?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay blew out a sigh. He shared a questing look with Gabriel, who offered a scant nod in response, and then he explained why they were trying to re-form Saga, and what they intended to do once they had.</span></p>
<p><span>By the time he’d finished the rest of Jain’s girls had all stopped to listen. Jain herself simply stared at him for a bit, chewing salt pork like a cow working down a mouthful of cud. “Y’all are fucking crazy,” she said finally.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>When breakfast was done and the dishes rinsed clean in the river, Lady Jain and the Silk Arrows finished robbing them. Matrick was permitted to keep his knives, and Clay his shield, but the sword he’d managed to plunder from the palace armoury was confiscated. Moog’s enchanted bag appeared empty, so they left him that. Everyone but Clay and Gabe had a good laugh when Gabriel dumped the same collection of dull rocks from his pack. They were permitted to keep the rations they’d brought from Agria, thankfully, but one of the girls took a shining to Matrick’s good leather boots, which left the man who had ruled a kingdom just three days ago wearing naught but a pair of wool socks on his feet. The Silk Arrows left him those, at least; they had no need of socks, after all.</span></p>
<p><span>“Listen,” said Clay, sidling as close as he dared to Jain and lowering his voice, “we went to some trouble faking Matty’s death. If Lilith found out he were still alive—”</span></p>
<p><span>“No worries, Slowhand,” Jain assured him. “We won’t go spilling your secret. Me and mine have no love for the Ice Queen of Agria, I’ll you tell that. Far as we’re concerned, Old King Matrick is dead and gone.” She threw a wink in Matty’s direction. “Long live the king.”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick offered a stiff bow in return.</span></p>
<p><span>As her girls dissolved into the forest Jain turned to take them all in. “Keep well,” she said, leaning on her unstrung bow. “With any luck we’ll meet again before you fools hit the Heartwyld, but if not …” She squinted at Gabriel, and her eyes went hard above her bandit smile. “I hope you find your little girl. I truly do. She’s lucky to have a da’ what looks out for her.” Jain looked as though she would say something further, but instead she stepped away, waving a silk-gloved hand in farewell before strolling off into the woods.</span></p>
<p><span>“What a nice bunch of girls,” declared Matrick, watching her go.</span></p>
<p><span>“They certainly were,” Gabe agreed.</span></p>
<p><span>“I mean, they made us breakfast and everything,” said Moog, and the other two nodded.</span></p>
<p><span>Which left Clay to state the obvious. “Y’all are fucking crazy,” he said.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>Around noon the next day Gabriel asked to see Moog’s crystal ball. Clay had actually been wondering why his friend hadn’t done so already, which didn’t make it any less distressing now that it finally happened. Moog, at least, did an admirable job of dissembling the matter.</span></p>
<p><span>“What? Oh, that old thing? Whatever for?”</span></p>
<p><span>“You know what for,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>They’d stopped for a brief rest, each of them scarfing a handful of berries and mushrooms the wizard had pointed out as they walked. Matrick, sensing the awkwardness at hand, wandered off to relieve himself in the woods.</span></p>
<p><span>“It probably won’t even work, you know. Damn thing’s been dropped a dozen times or more. It’s as unreliable as a barbarian librarian!” Moog laughed at that, but when no one else did he looked genuinely shocked. “Really? Because barbarians … well, never mind.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel favoured the wizard with that broken smile of his. “Even still.”</span></p>
<p><span>“All right. Okay. Once we get to Fivecourt I’ll have a look for it. Sound good? Or maybe we can find a proper diviner who—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Now. Please.”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog tugged nervously at his beard. He looked to Clay for help, and Clay took a good hard look at a really quite fascinating knot in the tree he was standing next to. At last the wizard relented. With a sigh he rummaged in his bottomless bag until he found what Gabriel had asked for.</span></p>
<p><span>“She is very, very far away,” Moog warned as he handed it over. “You might not be able to see that far, or very clearly, even if it does work.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel sat cross-legged on the loamy earth, nestling the crystal ball in his lap. Moog plunked himself down across from him. Clay remained where he was, unsure he wanted to see whatever the glassy orb revealed.</span></p>
<p><span>“So what do I do?” asked Gabe. “Say her name? Call out to her somehow?”</span></p>
<p><span>“You don’t have to say anything, no. She can’t hear you at all. You just sort of … summon her to mind. Form a picture of her in your head, and then hold on to it for as long as it takes.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel did as he was told, squinting into his lap and biting anxiously at his bottom lip. The whirl of violet mist inside the ball was so sudden all three of them started.</span></p>
<p><span>“Concentrate,” said Moog. “Once you have her in mind, try to make every detail as vivid as possible.”</span></p>
<p><span>The smoke within the orb continued to roil, now and then coalescing long enough for Clay to pick out a small detail—the curve of an ear, the arch of an eyebrow—before it was lost to the swirl and eddy of purple vapours. At last the smoke began to clear, and they saw a vast black ocean heaving beneath a grey sky.</span></p>
<p><em>Not an ocean</em><span>, Clay realized.</span> <em>It’s the black forest. The Heartwyld.</em></p>
<p><span>The sea of desiccated wood went on and on, and Clay shuddered to think what horrid things lurked beneath those gnarled eaves. At last the trees gave way to stony foothills; then a wall of imposing mountains—the Emperor’s Mantle—reared up like the battlements of some ghastly, snow-capped</span> <span>fortress. They were armoured in sheer ice, their hearts infested</span><span> with monstrosities that thrived in the deepest, darkest places</span> <span>of the world. Clay caught a glimpse of something soaring among</span><span> the mist-shrouded peaks. Long necked and leather winged, it dived behind a bluff and was gone.</span></p>
<p><span>A loud snap stole his gaze from the orb. Matrick had returned and was standing behind Gabriel, who was too intent upon the sphere to notice.</span></p>
<p><span>Beyond the mountains lay a plain of yellow grass, traced here and there by stone roads and dotted by small hamlets. Endland. Gabe’s vision swept along the course of a frothing river. They saw a herd of wild horses splashing through, and then, after a few fleeting seconds, the image in the orb came to rest on a village bisecting the river.</span></p>
<p><span>Something was wrong. It was a moment before Clay’s mind could reconcile what it was he was seeing. There were corpses in the water.</span> <em>Thousands</em><span> of them. A mound of bloating bodies so huge it threatened to dam the river. He saw pale limbs and weeping red wounds, white-eyed faces frozen in horror and pain and madness.</span></p>
<p><span>“They’re polluting the water,” said Gabriel. “Poisoning the city with their own dead.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Focus!” snapped Moog, as a haze of purple mist began to overtake the scene. “Keep going.”</span></p>
<p><span>The view ambled on, but Gabriel’s sight seemed transfixed on the river below, choked by an oily morass of bloody gore. At last he managed to wrest his eyes from the fouled water, and Clay, who had taken a few steps closer to the orb without realizing he’d done so, felt his breath catch and his heart go cold.</span></p>
<p><span>Castia was a mighty city, or so he’d been told. It was the farthest outpost of human civilization, a testament to the indomitable spirit of those who had built the city of their dreams in a place beyond nightmares. But Clay couldn’t see it. Or rather, he couldn’t</span> <em>make himself look away</em><span> from what surrounded it, on all sides, to the limit of every horizon.</span></p>
<p><span>He’d seen a few armies in his day. He’d seen a number of levied militias, and too many mobs (angry and otherwise) to count. He’d seen what a crowd of a hundred thousand could look like, when every band in Grandual gathered for the War Fair in the ruins of Kaladar. But he had never seen a Horde until now. His mind reeled at the sight. His mouth went dry. The hope he’d nursed of bringing Rose home safe drew the shutters, blew out the candles, and curled up under its bed.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel cried out as though he’d been struck. The image in the orb winked out, and for a long while no one moved. Matrick stood rooted to the spot. Moog covered his mouth with his hands. He was watching Gabe as if he expected the other man to explode before his very eyes.</span></p>
<p><span>Which was exactly what happened next.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel seized the crystal ball and lunged toward a knob of exposed rock.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gabe, wait!” Moog reached out, but made no move to stop him. The wizard knew better than that, at least.</span></p>
<p><span>With a sound that was part anguished scream, part bloodcurdling war cry, Gabriel raised the orb above his head and brought it violently down onto the stone. It</span> <em>clinked</em><span> like silverware striking glass. Again, and again, he smashed it against the pitiless rock, until at last Clay heard it crack. With each successive blow the sound grew louder, until he feared the orb would shatter, and whatever magic it held would boil out and, well, he had no idea what to expect, really.</span></p>
<p><span>But now Gabriel was on his feet, running downhill through the trees, roaring like a Kaskar berserker toward the river below. A trail of purple smoke billowed behind him, issuing from within the fractured sphere. When he reached the riverbank Gabriel hurled the orb—which vanished with hardly a splash—and then, his fury spent, he sagged to his knees and wept by the water’s edge.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog was on the verge of tears. “I’m sorry,” he said to no one in particular. “I thought if maybe he could see her it might lift his spirits. Or if nothing happened … well, then at least we would know.”</span></p>
<p><span>“So she’s there, in Castia?” asked Clay. “She’s alive?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard blinked. “Well, yes, she’s alive, or we wouldn’t have seen anything at all. But …” He didn’t finish. He didn’t need to. Rose was alive, but no more so than an insect struggling in a web, while an uncountable legion of spiders closed in for the kill.</span></p>
<p><em>But you knew that already, didn’t you?</em><span> Clay asked himself.</span> <em>And so did Gabriel.</em><span> What they’d seen in the orb changed nothing. Going to Castia was a shitty idea, but no more so now than it had been the week before.</span></p>
<p><span>Shouldering his depleted pack, Clay called down to his friend. “Hey, Gabe, the boys and I are gonna go ahead and rescue your daughter. If you feel like doing that instead of crying down by the river, we’d love to have you along.” Saying that, he turned and trudged off eastward without bothering to look if the others were following.</span></p>
<p><span>But they were, he knew. Of course they were.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>