<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter022">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23786a" id="Ref_23786"><span>Chapter Twenty-two</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23786a"><span><em>The Maxithon</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>In retrospect, getting blind drunk the night before fighting for his life in the arena had been a terrible idea. Clay’s stomach gurgled like a cauldron left to boil. His head was pounding, and the not-so-distant thunder of thirty thousand people screaming beyond the shadowed corridor in which they stood wasn’t helping. Nor was the fact that the Maxithon, despite being fastened by four mighty chains against the river’s current, was</span> <em>floating</em><span>. The effect was subtle, but unnerving, like standing in the hold of some colossal ship.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay decided to add</span> <em>vomit everywhere</em><span> to the long list of things he’d rather not do today, right beneath</span> <em>get killed</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>He could hear Dinantra addressing the crowd. Her voice, altered by magic to carry across the arena, was promising a show unlike any they had seen before. The gorgon hadn’t yet revealed what Clay and his bandmates would be fighting, only that it had been brought “with considerable danger and great expense” from the “darkest depths of the Heartwyld,” which could have meant pretty much anything.</span></p>
<p><span>“Maybe it’ll be an owlbear,” said Moog excitedly. The wizard seemed unfazed by the exploits of the previous night. “Can you imagine if it was? Be a shame to have to kill it, though. Terrible shame.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay didn’t bother asserting that owlbears didn’t exist. They’d been through it before, many times. The wizard had once offered “proof” that such creatures were real by showing them a crude drawing in an old book of what looked to everyone but Moog like a bear with comically large eyes.</span></p>
<p><span>The gorgon had fallen silent. There was a brief fanfare, followed by a resounding cheer, and from that noise emerged a single word booming over and over again, ceaseless as the ocean surf, echoing like a deep drumbeat down the long stone corridor, so loud it shook the dust from the ceiling and set the ground trembling beneath their feet.</span></p>
<p><em>Saga, Saga, Saga.</em></p>
<p><span>Clay caught Moog and Matrick sharing an eager grin.</span> <em>These two idiots are actually enjoying this</em><span>, he thought, while trying to suppress his own … well, he certainly wouldn’t have called it</span> <em>excitement</em><span>, since excitement implied an optimism he didn’t particularly feel about what awaited them in the arena, but there was, admittedly, something undeniably thrilling about hearing their name on the lips of so many thousands of people.</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon cracked his knuckles and rolled his neck from side to side.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel sat ahead of them in the tunnel, slouched against the wall with his head between his knees. When the crowd began chanting he stiffened, and his head rose like an animal catching wind of its prey. After a moment he stood, his shadow slender against the bright tunnel mouth.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s time,” he said, and then, “Are we ready for this?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ready,” Matrick confirmed.</span></p>
<p><span>“Yessir,” said Moog cheerily.</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon grunted, “Sure.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay sighed and shrugged. “Guess so.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe nodded, turned, and led the four of them up the gently sloping corridor. Clay listened in a hangover-induced daze as the crowd’s incessant chant grew louder, as the tunnel mouth grew wider, brighter.</span></p>
<p><span>And then Gabriel stepped into the sun’s partitioning light and the chant dissolved into a wordless, furious roar.</span></p>
<p><span>Like each of them, Saga’s frontman had been suitably equipped for the occasion. The armour provided for him was lacquered white and gold, impressive looking but too ornate for Clay’s taste. The sword he carried was a poor imitation of</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>, huge and heavy, hideously grey. Gabe’s hair had been washed and brushed out by one of the gorgon’s slaves, so that except for the slump of his shoulders and the haunted look in his eyes he somewhat resembled the “Golden Gabe” this crowd was expecting to see.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog went out after him. The wizard had been given proper robes to replace his soiled one-piece pyjamas. He bore nothing but the bag slung over his shoulder, and he waved with both hands at the circling thousands.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick was next. The king wore a black leather vest studded with iron rivets, which he couldn’t quite fasten over the bulge of his stomach. The jewel-encrusted hilts of</span> <em>Roxy</em><span> and</span> <em>Grace</em><span> gleamed at his waist, and as he stepped into the arena some of the more patriotic Agrians in the stands began singing his name as well.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay grimaced.</span> <em>If Lilith doesn’t know yet that Matrick is alive,</em><span> he thought,</span> <em>then she will very soon</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon walked out ahead of Clay. Dinantra had given the southerner back his axe, which she’d purchased from the Quarry along with Ganelon himself and had kept in her personal treasury these past nine years. Clay couldn’t help but stare at it as he followed along: twinned black blades swept like a wyvern’s wings down either side of the haft. Each wicked edge was traced by a filigree of druic script that pulsed blue-white only when the weapon was hefted by the warrior himself. Whenever he did so, the axe itself began whispering quietly, urgently, in a language even Moog didn’t recognize. If used by anyone else, the weapon was as deadly as any other razor-sharp length of metal, but in Ganelon’s hands it was a thing of awesome lethality. It was called</span> <em>Syrinx</em><span>, and asking the stoic southerner how he came to possess such an artifact was as likely to garner an answer as asking a goat for directions to the nearest library.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay went out last, raising an arm and squinting against the sun’s punishing glare. He’d chosen a jerkin of boiled leather from the arena’s armoury that fit him surprisingly well. He had</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> strapped to his right arm, and he’d found a reasonably sharp sword that looked as though it might not snap the first time he hit something with it, so that was promising.</span></p>
<p><span>The five of them stalked to the wide-open centre of the Maxithon and stood there as wave after wave of deafening adulation washed over them.</span></p>
<p><em>This</em><span>, Clay thought to himself,</span> <em>is why the bands of today don’t bother touring. This is the reason they avoid the Heartwyld. Why risk being ambushed by monsters when you can pick and choose which to fight? Why put yourself in danger of getting lost, or contracting the rot, when you can simply visit your local arena?</em></p>
<p><span>He turned a slow circle where he stood, eyes climbing ring after ring of seething multitudes. Uncountable screaming faces. Innumerable waving hands. Why kill in obscurity when you could do so here, and bask in the glory granted by thirty thousand adoring witnesses?</span></p>
<p><span>Dinantra was watching from the patron’s box on the lowest tier, which was backed by a tiled wall and shaded by a roof of fluttering silk awnings. The Duke of Endland sat in silence among her gaggle of courtiers, arms crossed and ears flattened against the autumnal sweep of his slicked-back hair. His eyes were fixed firmly on Gabriel, who in turn was staring across the sand-strewn expanse at the huge wrought-iron gate that stood opposite the corridor they’d emerged from a few minutes earlier.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s opening,” he called over his shoulder.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay’s tongue had gone dry as cured beef, and it tasted like someone had ashed a whisky-drenched cigarette in his mouth. Sure enough, the heavy portcullis was grinding slowly up. Whatever Dinantra and Lastleaf hoped might spell the end of Saga was about to come roaring out at them.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shifted his weight from one foot to the other. His back had been aching since this morning, and he leaned back to stretch it. Considering the draw that he and his bandmates seemed to be, he was unsurprised to find several skyships skimming lazy circles above the arena, from which those fortunate enough to have unearthed the airborne relics could peer down into the Maxithon like bloodthirsty gods.</span></p>
<p><span>There was a</span> <em>clang</em><span> as the gate reached its apex, then a hush as the circling sea of spectators fell suddenly becalmed. And then the thing that might indeed spell the end of Saga</span> <em>actually did</em><span> come roaring out at them.</span></p>
<p><span>At which point Clay vomited onto the sand at his feet, and so crossed off the list the first of the two things he hadn’t wanted to do today.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>It was a chimera—likely the very same one he and Gabriel had seen during the parade in Conthas. The thing was a monster in every sense of the word. It had the paws of a lion, the hind legs of a goat, a sweeping reptilian tail, and three heads: a dragon sheathed in deep crimson scales, a black-maned lion, and a white ram with unsettling pink eyes. It had been caged when he’d seen it last, heavily sedated. But now it was free, and very much alert, and pounding across the sand like a dog racing toward its long-absent master, only Clay very much doubted it wanted only to knock them down and give their faces a lick.</span></p>
<p><span>The Maxithon made a sound that was half cheer, half horrified gasp. They had come to see an old band reunite for one last clash of arms. Some had dragged their children along so the young ones could see what a</span> <em>real</em><span> band looked like. Others had brought their mothers or fathers, who no doubt waxed nostalgic about how kids today wouldn’t know a true mercenary if one kicked down their door and ate their supper. Instead, they would stand witness as four old men and one pissed-off southerner were savagely mutilated before their eyes.</span></p>
<p><span>Startled by the noise, the monster skidded to a halt. The ram bared its teeth, the lion roared, and the dragon loosed a spout of red-orange flame into the sky. The crowd cheered wildly, having apparently deciding to make the best of things.</span></p>
<p><em>At least they’ll have a good story to tell,</em><span> Clay mused darkly.</span> <em>Oh, you saw some no-name band fight a clutch of half-starved bugbears? I watched Saga get torn apart by a fucking chimera!</em></p>
<p><span>The monster made an effort to open its wings, which were tightly bound, and the heads snarled in mutual frustration at its thwarted efforts. Having no better option, they decided as one to descend on the prey Dinantra had so kindly made available.</span></p>
<p><span>“What do we do?” Moog’s voice was shrill with fear. Beside him, Matrick looked as if he were about to follow Clay’s example and empty the contents of his stomach on the ground.</span></p>
<p><span>“We survive,” said Ganelon. He tightened his grip on</span> <em>Syrinx</em><span> and took a step forward, as though he meant to protect them from what was coming. As if he possibly could.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel wasn’t even looking at the thing. His eyes were nailed to the patron’s box, where Lastleaf and the gorgon lounged beneath the shade of a silk awning. His expression was grave, but Clay could see what smouldered beneath that ashen gaze. It went without saying that if they died here today, there would come a tomorrow when Rose would perish as well—if it hadn’t already come. And worse, she would die without knowing that her father had cared enough to come for her, that he’d been willing to risk anything to see her safe. Gabriel knew this fight for what it was: a death sentence. Not only for himself, and for the men who stood at his side, but for his daughter as well.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe was no longer the hero he’d once been. The young lion had grown into a meek old lamb. But even a coward found his courage in a corner, and there were things even a craven heart could not allow.</span></p>
<p><span>The beast came on, and Gabriel charged out to meet it. He raised his sword. The dull iron gleamed like druin steel in the bright afternoon sun. His hair streamed behind him like a pennant of pure gold, and the sound in the Maxithon rose to a frenzied pitch.</span> <em>Here</em><span> was the glory they’d come to witness, the spectacle they could brag about for years to come.</span></p>
<p><span>The chimera hit Gabe like a charging bull. The ram’s head lowered—the sword clanging uselessly off one horn—and then Gabriel was soaring through the air over Ganelon’s head. The dragon attacked next. Its jaws snapped shut in the space where the warrior had been an instant earlier. Ganelon was rolling to his left and came up swinging.</span> <em>Syrinx</em><span> bit into the scales alongside the dragon’s head and it recoiled, hissing in pain.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay plodded forward as fast as his legs would carry him. Matrick was just behind, Moog slowing to help a stunned Gabriel to his feet. The chimera turned on Ganelon, and twice more the dragon lunged. Ganelon’s axe whirled before him, both attempts leaving the dragon bloodied. At last it drew itself up, like a snake preparing to strike. Ganelon dropped to a crouch, realizing too late he should have started running. A spark flashed inside the dragon’s maw and a torrent of fire streamed out.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay’s skid brought him between his friend and the flame,</span> <span>which battered harmlessly against</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>’s weathered face.</span><span> The force of it knocked him back into Ganelon, and the two of them sprawled helplessly as the chimera advanced.</span></p>
<p><span>But then Matrick arrived, shouting at the monster. The ram’s head twisted to look at him, drawing the others, and Matrick launched himself at it. His first swipe fell short, and he was forced to dance back clumsily as the ram’s yellowed teeth bit at him, missing by inches. Matrick responded by stabbing his right-hand dagger sideways into its eye. The beast screamed—a disturbingly</span> <em>human</em><span> sound—and tried again to bite him. Reacting without thinking, Matrick offered his entire left arm to the creature’s maw, twisting at the last second so that as its jaw clamped shut the knife in his hand plunged up through the roof of its mouth and (allegedly) into its brain, since it died immediately.</span></p>
<p><em>One head down,</em><span> Clay thought,</span> <em>two to go</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>The crowd was deafening. Matrick was on his knees, clutching his arm. He looked both exultant and terrified, but mostly terrified. The chimera wheeled on him, and Clay was too busy fretting over that to see the tail swipe that took him in the head.</span></p>
<p><span>From his side, several feet away from where he’d been standing a moment earlier, Clay saw Moog unleash a handful of small pellets at the beast. The wizard shouted some arcane command, and all but one of the pellets puffed into smoke. The last bloomed into a fitful fireball that smote the lion’s head as it descended toward Matrick.</span></p>
<p><span>“Fucking things,” Moog cursed, rummaging through his bag for what Clay hoped was something more effective than whatever he’d just employed.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel took advantage of the distraction, dragging Matrick away by the collar and putting himself between the injured man and the monster. The chimera stalked toward them. The ram’s head hung limp to one side, blood drooling from its mouth. Ganelon was trying to get at the thing from behind, but the tail was lashing like a viper, keeping him at bay.</span></p>
<p><span>The lion loosed a roar in Gabriel’s face, and Gabriel roared back, stepping cautiously to his right in an effort to draw it away from Matrick, who looked to have passed out from shock. The chimera lunged, and Gabe leapt clear of the lion’s jaws, then slashed at the dragon’s head when it came close. His sword, too dull to be effective, glanced harmlessly off the armouring scales.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay could see that the effort required to swing the weapon was already taking its toll. Gabriel managed to ward off another thrust of the dragon’s head, but one of the beast’s huge paws took him by surprise and sent him tumbling face-first onto the sand. He rolled onto his back, but before he could rise it pinned him down. The armour kept him from being crushed, but its wicked talons punched through. Gabriel cried out once, but then suddenly his limbs went stiff. His sword fell from fingers that could no longer grasp the hilt.</span></p>
<p><em>Paralyzed,</em><span> Clay realized. As if this monster didn’t have enough methods of murder at its disposal, it could also leave you helpless in case it would rather murder you later.</span></p>
<p><span>“Aha!” Moog pulled a wand from his bag, or rather a gnarled twig wrapped in bronze wire that Clay sure as hell hoped was a wand. The chimera, having decided that Gabriel was no longer a threat, turned on the wizard. It roared and flexed its wings again. The thick cords of rope that bound them groaned, but held. By then Moog was pointing the wand, and as the beast sprang at him he shouted something incomprehensible. There was a</span> <em>crack</em><span> that drew a silent breath from thirty-thousand people, and an arc of white lightning leapt from the bronze-wire wand. It hit the lion between the eyes, dissipating instantly. The beast shuddered, dazed but not dead. Its front legs went out from beneath it even as Clay climbed groggily to his own and stumbled toward the wizard.</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon might have killed it then, but the dragon head was still alert. It belched another stream of fire, and the warrior was forced to leap away.</span></p>
<p><span>“Ha!” Moog made a flourish with the wand, basking for a moment in the adulation of the crowd. He</span> <em>did</em><span> look pretty impressive, Clay supposed—resplendent in borrowed robes, his wispy white hair shimmering like sun-warmed silk. As Clay drew near, the wizard glanced over, grinning. “Watch</span> <span>this!” he said, and what happened next might have been extra</span><span>ordinarily funny were their lives not at stake.</span></p>
<p><span>But they were, so it wasn’t.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>