<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter011">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23753a" id="Ref_23753"><span>Chapter Eleven</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23753a"><span><em>The Cuckold King</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>He came out sideways, unsure of when he’d begun screaming at the top of his lungs.</span></p>
<p><span>A man spun at the sound, and Clay caught a glimpse of widening eyes above a drawn veil before he inadvertently performed what could aptly be described as a flying drop-kick to the poor man’s face.</span></p>
<p><span>He and his unintended victim hit the ground together. Clay had barely begun his litany of apology before the man turned on him with hot eyes and a bloody snarl, at which point Clay noticed the wickedly curved knife in his hand.</span></p>
<p><span>He tried to scramble backward, but his legs were trapped beneath his assailant. He could hope the first strike didn’t kill him, or that the man concluded in the next half second that Clay meant him no harm, which didn’t seem likely at all.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel came through the mirror in a head-first roll, as though he’d been pushed. He landed directly on top of Clay, which didn’t improve their chances of not getting stabbed, but then Moog hurtled overhead, hooting like a child on a playground slide. The knife-bearing man took another accidental kick—to the jaw this time—and went out like a candle in a hurricane.</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, my!” The wizard scrambled to his knees. “Sir, I am so—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Leave it, Moog. He’s out.” Clay jutted his chin toward the knife still clasped in the man’s limp hand. “Also, he tried to kill me.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh. How rude.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I’d say so,” Clay agreed.</span> <em>Though I did technically kick him first.</em></p>
<p><span>Gabriel rolled onto his back, swiping hair from his eyes. “Where are we?”</span></p>
<p><span>For a moment they took stock of their surroundings: an expansive room, expensively furnished. The walls were hung with paintings and rich tapestries, the ceiling painted with a mural depicting a scene from the War of Reclamation, when mankind had scattered the Heartwyld Hordes feasting on the carcass of the Old Dominion. Against one wall was a huge bed shrouded by diaphanous white curtains.</span></p>
<p><span>“We’re in Brycliffe Castle,” said Moog. “This is the same room as the last time: the king’s bedchamber.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Which means …” Clay began.</span></p>
<p><span>“Matrick is here,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay frowned. “What? Why do you say that?”</span></p>
<p><span>A shrug. “Because he’s the king of Agria. And because that’s him there.” Gabriel pointed toward the bed. Sure enough, there was Matrick. The king, who had put on considerable weight since Clay had seen him last, was sprawled amidst a tangle of silk sheets, fast asleep and snoring.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog whirled. “Matty?” He dashed to the bed and leapt through the gap in the curtains, pouncing on their old bandmate like a boy determined to wake his parents on the morning of his birthday. “Matty, wake up!”</span></p>
<p><span>The foul-mouthed, booze-guzzling, whore-mongering, and</span><span> wholly unscrupulous thief who was now the ruler of one of Grandual’s five great kingdoms awoke with a start.</span></p>
<p><span>“What? Who?” He rolled away from the wizard, flailing as he ran out of bed and fell into a heap on the floor. Then he screamed, “Assassins!”</span></p>
<p><span>The double doors to the chamber burst open and a pair of guardsmen rushed in, swords drawn. At the same time someone tumbled through the mirror, wreathed in trails of orange smoke. It was one of Kallorek’s thugs—the big brute with the hammer who had smashed Steve’s face to smithereens.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay looked despairingly between the guards and the hulking newcomer. His first instinct was to size the man up, but when his gaze flitted downward he froze. “Um, do you … need a sec?”</span></p>
<p><span>The big brute scowled, and then followed Clay’s stare to the very obvious bulge in his breeches. He half-turned, suddenly embarrassed, though the side profile did little to help matters.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay got as far as opening his mouth before Moog cut him off.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s the phylactery,” he explained. “I threw it, remember? The explosion, the smoke …” he chuckled, wearing a grin that was equal parts sheepish and smug. “Zero to hero. As advertised.”</span></p>
<p><span>“That would explain this then.” Gabe motioned toward the rise in his own trousers.</span></p>
<p><span>“Ah, me too, now,” said Moog. “Look here!”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay didn’t look. Didn’t need to. He had a fair idea as to what the wizard was referring.</span></p>
<p><span>Another silence followed, infinitely more awkward than the last. Finally, one of the guards spoke up. “Sire, what should we … Sire?”</span></p>
<p><span>The king was doubled over, clutching his gut as if he’d taken a wound. Clay heard a wheeze, then a snort, and then Matrick threw his head back, howling in laughter. Kallorek’s brute began growling like a threatened dog. His big fists tightened on the haft of his maul.</span></p>
<p><span>That was all the warning Clay needed. In one motion he shrugged</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> free and caught the grip as it fell. He was already moving as the brute hefted the heavy iron hammer and lurched toward Gabriel, who was preoccupied with trying to adjust himself. The blow pounded the shield with a deep</span> <em>thunk</em><span>, glancing off. The force of it sent a jolt down Clay’s arms, and pain arced like lightning across his shoulders. It had been months since he’d got into a scrap of any sort, years since he’d fought anything with a legitimate chance of killing him.</span></p>
<p><em>Better blow the dust off fast, Slowhand</em><span>, he told himself. Clay saw the hammer rise again and this time met the swing with strength, driving the weapon wide. He’d just decided to throw a punch when the man’s boot kicked him square in the chest. He hurtled backward, crashing painfully into one of the bed’s thick posts.</span></p>
<p><span>The king’s guards hadn’t moved, still unsure who their enemy was—a dilemma Clay could scarcely relate to. The brute had recovered and was hefting his maul like a lumberjack stepping up to the tree. There was no time to reach for anything—a candelabra, or an especially heavy bedside tome—that might constitute a weapon, and he couldn’t simply step clear or he’d leave Gabriel helplessly exposed, so Clay rushed instead.</span></p>
<p><span>The hammer came swinging in from the left. Clay put his shoulder into</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>, leaning hard into the blow so as to not be thrown to the ground by the immense strength behind it. He ducked a clumsy backhand swing and then launched himself into the air, slamming the warped wooden face of his shield into that of his opponent. The brute stumbled back a step, then another. Clay pressed the advantage and levelled a kick of his own, forcing the man back into the mirror. It rippled like water in his wake.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay wheeled on the bed. “Moog, how do I stop him from coming back?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard spread his hands. “Poke your head through and ask him not to?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Moog …” Clay felt his patience rapidly fray; his nine-year-old daughter was easier to manage than this senile old sorcerer.</span></p>
<p><span>Thankfully, Gabriel had his wits about him. He stepped forward and tipped the mirror facedown onto the floor.</span></p>
<p><span>“Thank you,” said Clay. Gabriel flashed him a tight smile and quickly looked elsewhere.</span></p>
<p><span>By now the torrent of Matrick’s mirth had drained to a trickle. He was still giggling as he stepped between his guardsmen, urging them with a touch to sheath their swords.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gods of Grandual, what are you guys doing here?” He approached them warily, as if they were a trio of deer he’d caught drinking from a forest pool and any sudden move might startle them to flight.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay swiped hair from the sweat beading his forehead. The fight, brief as it was, had left him winded. “It’s complicated,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog was sitting on the bed, hands on his knees. “Gabe’s daughter is trapped in Castia. We’re going to rescue her and we want you to come.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shrugged. “That about sums it up.”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick paled. “Castia? What was Rose doing in Castia?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Now that really</span> <em>is</em><span> complicated …” Clay began.</span></p>
<p><span>“She’s in a band,” said Gabriel. He was wringing his hands again, like a pauper on a chapel doorstep. “When the Republic asked for help in fighting the Horde, she went.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Okay, yeah,” Clay agreed. “That’s pretty much it exactly.”</span></p>
<p><span>“We’re getting the band back together!” Moog exclaimed. “Think of it, Matty! It’ll be like old times! The five of us reunited, setting out across the Heartwyld!”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick groaned, rubbing at his eyes with the palms of his hands. The years, despite having been spent in obvious luxury, had taken their toll on the king of Agria. His black hair was streaked with grey and receding rapidly; his whiskers were salted white on a jowly chin. He looked tired, but Clay supposed that might have been due to the fact that he’d been fast asleep when four men had burst into his room through a magic mirror and started swinging at one another with shields and hammers and absurdly incongruous erections.</span></p>
<p><span>“Matty? Whaddaya say, man?” Moog seemed genuinely confused by the king’s lack of enthusiasm.</span></p>
<p><span>“I … can’t, Moog. I just can’t. I’m sorry.”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog looked utterly crestfallen. Clay, however, thought that Matrick was the first among Saga’s old crew to show a lick of good sense, and it was a moment before he recognized the cold stone settling in his gut for what it was: dejection.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay realized he had been</span> <em>hoping</em><span> that Matrick would have</span> <span>said yes. A part of him had believed (without any good reason,</span> <span>to be sure) that if</span> <em>he</em><span> could be convinced to drop everything and follow Gabriel on his mad quest to Castia, then surely the other members of the band would do the same. He had his doubts about Ganelon, of course, but not Matrick, who loved Gabriel like a brother, and had once been the most adventurous of them all.</span></p>
<p><span>It was to Gabriel that the king now spoke. “I really</span> <em>am</em><span> sorry, Gabe. There’s just a lot on my plate here. I’ve got Lilith and the kids to think about, you know. Not to mention a kingdom to run, a border war that seems inevitable, and this damnable council tomorrow. If I wasn’t—”</span></p>
<p><span>“The Council of Courts is tomorrow?” Gabe asked, suddenly alert.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick ran a hand back over his vanishing hairline. “It is, yes. At Lindmoor. And that horse fucker Obolon Han will be there. He and I came nearly came to blows the last time we met, and tensions with Cartea have been higher than a scratch addict ever since. I’ll tell you, this ‘Duke of Endland’ chose an orc-shit time to stage this … well, whatever the fuck it is he’s up to.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel listened, gnawing anxiously on a knuckle and peering at nothing in particular. When the king finished griping, he asked, “Can we come? I’d like to get a look at this duke myself. Maybe we can convince him to release Grandual’s mercenaries.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Um … well, sure,” said Matrick. “I don’t see why not. I mean, I’ll have to run it by Lilith first, obviously.”</span></p>
<p><span>As though she were some malevolent spirit conjured by the utterance of her name, the queen of Agria stormed into the room. She wore nothing but a bare slip of a nightgown, and although she’d aged many years and given birth to several children since Clay had seen her last, neither had done a damn thing to diminish her stunning—if severe—beauty. Nor did the fact that she looked extremely pissed off at the moment. She was trailed by a tall, heavily muscled man who was, somewhat curiously, not wearing a shirt. He was, however, wearing a protective frown and carrying a very large sword.</span></p>
<p><span>“What in Vail’s name is going on here?” Lilith demanded to know.</span></p>
<p><span>“Lilith!” Matrick took a step toward his wife, but drew up short when the queen’s shirtless guardsman stepped between them. “There was an assassin, but the boys here—well, you remember the boys?”</span></p>
<p><span>She cast an icy glare at the three men who had risked their lives to rescue her some twenty-five years ago. “What are they doing here?”</span></p>
<p><span>The king wrung his hands in much the same way Gabe had earlier. “Uh, they came through the mirror there, actually.” Matty’s voice had found a tone that balanced on the blade’s edge between pleading and placating. Clay imagined it was what a talking dog might sound like while explaining to its master why it had shit all over the rug.</span></p>
<p><span>“I didn’t ask</span> <em>how</em><span> they arrived, dear,” said Lilith, sweet as poisoned honey. “I asked</span> <em>what</em><span> they were doing here.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Of course, yes. Well, they’re on their way to Castia.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Castia?” The very word seemed repellent to her. “Why?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, um …” The king threw a nervous glance at Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s complicated,” Clay said.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>At the pub in Coverdale there was a dish known as the King’s Breakfast. It consisted of two watery eggs burnt to the bottom of a cast-iron skillet, doused heavily with black pepper and a thick red sauce Shep referred to as tomato blood. It was served with a slice of blackened toast and, if you were lucky, a few slices of pear more bruised than a bad bard’s ego.</span></p>
<p><span>Unsurprisingly, when it came to what a king</span> <em>actually</em><span> ate for breakfast, Shep had missed the mark by a fair margin. Highlights from Matrick’s table the next morning included tottering columns of fluffy gold pancakes drenched in maple syrup, steaming loaves of mouth-watering bread alongside delicate porcelain dishes of salted butter, perfectly browned toast served with a staggering variety of jam—blueberry, strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, apricot, grape, fig, and something called marmalade that Moog couldn’t pronounce regardless of how many attempts he made to do so. There were slabs of pork belly, plump sausages, and eggs so airy and fresh Clay swore he could hear hens in labor beyond the kitchen door.</span></p>
<p><span>To drink there was fresh-squeezed juice—apple, orange, cranberry—and crisp white wine; a tea made of fragrant, flowery leaves; cool water flavoured with tart southern limes; and even strong Phantran coffee that Matrick gulped down as if it were the antidote to a poison burning through his veins.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay might have dubbed it one of the very best breakfasts of his life—or it had been, anyway, until Lilith, who was seated opposite the king at the far end of the long table, went ahead and spoiled it all by announcing she was pregnant.</span></p>
<p><span>The king, caught entirely by surprise, had a mouthful of pancake at the moment and Clay had to wonder whether the timing of the queen’s confession had been artfully planned. Around the table drinks froze on their way to lips and clattering forks fell silent, excepting those of Matrick’s five children, all of whom continued eating and talking with one another, as children did when adults said whatever it was adults said.</span></p>
<p><span>Besides Clay and his bandmates, there were several others in the hall as well. Servants bustled in and out of an arched doorway, clearing away dishes and setting down more as fast as the king and his guests could finish them. Soldiers stood at attention between the tall windows on one side of the room, and the queen’s personal guard cut an impressive figure standing a few feet behind her. A northman by the look of him, the same one who had appeared shirtless in the king’s bedchamber the night before. He was younger than Clay had first perceived, but seemed a capable sort, if a touch too handsome for his own good. His nose, like those of a great many Kaskars Clay had met, was hooked like a falcon’s beak, and his eyes had been rapturously fixed on Lilith all morning.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay was fairly certain he was fucking the queen, which made her declaration just now all the more interesting.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog broke the silence with a slow clap that left an even more uncomfortable silence in its wake.</span></p>
<p><span>By then, at least, the king had managed to swallow both his pride</span> <em>and</em><span> his pancake. “That’s … wonderful news, honey.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Isn’t it?” Lilith’s grin was frosted with spite. “The augurs</span><span> tell me it will be a boy. You’re going to have a new little brother,” she said, addressing the quintet of children seated along one side of the table.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay watched each of them react in turn. The twin boys were the youngest; they simply giggled at each other and kept on eating. Lillian, whose nut-brown skin contrasted the vibrant blue of her eyes, looked unimpressed, probably dreading the prospect of yet another brother to harass her. The fat one, Kerrick, wore a look of surprise. His jaw had dropped so low Clay could see the food still in his mouth. The oldest, Danigan, red-haired and freckled, simply nodded without looking up.</span></p>
<p><span>“But I don’t</span> <em>want</em><span> another brother,” said Kerrick.</span></p>
<p><span>“Neither do I,” Lillian added her voice in protest.</span></p>
<p><span>Their mother regarded them coolly. “Well I didn’t want to give birth to a twelve-pound monstrosity, or to a girl at all, for that matter. But life isn’t fair, is it? Kerrick, share some of those peas with your sister. You’ve had more than enough, I think, and she’s skinny as an urchin boy, I swear.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay felt his own mouth sag open. Needless to say, both Kerrick and Lillian began crying at once, which in turn set the twins to bawling. Only the eldest remained silent, spooning eggs into his mouth with evident disinterest.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick swiped a hand through his thinning hair. “Now, children, your mother didn’t mean to upset you. She just …” He looked despairingly down the length of the table. “It’s the baby,” he said. “It just makes her cranky, is all. Isn’t that right, dear?”</span></p>
<p><span>“That must be it,” said Lilith. “And dreadfully tired. I think I’ll have a quick … nap before we leave for the Council. Lokan, would you be so kind as to escort me to my room?”</span></p>
<p><span>“With pleasure,” said her guardsman, in a tone that all but confirmed Clay’s earlier suspicion.</span></p>
<p><span>The two of them left arm in arm, but if it bothered Matrick at all he didn’t let it show, concerning himself instead with placating the children. “Go ahead and finish your peas, Kerrick, they’re good for you. Lil, can you please pass your little brother his juice before he knocks it over? That’s a good girl.”</span></p>
<p><span>He managed to cajole the kids into cleaning their plates, and Clay watched throughout with utter fascination. The Matrick he’d used to know had been devious, foul-mouthed, and drunk more often than sober. He’d had a different woman on his arm every night—or on either arm, if he was feeling especially ambitious. He’d been a master thief and a vicious killer, wielding</span> <em>Roxy</em><span> and</span> <em>Grace</em><span> (the knives he’d named for the prostitutes to whom he’d lost his virginity) as though they were a pair of bloodthirsty fangs and the entire world his prey.</span></p>
<p><span>Who’d have thought he’d make a good father? Or a competent king for that matter? By all accounts, Agria was a flourishing kingdom, and even without Lilith’s help he seemed to be raising some half-decent children. Each one of them asked to be excused and kissed him good-bye before being trundled off to their tutors.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick asked the guards to leave as well, and after the servants refilled the coffee he dismissed them as well. Clay looked on in horror as Moog upended half a bowl of sugar into his.</span></p>
<p><span>“I like it sweet!” said the wizard.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick produced a flask from somewhere and spiked his own drink, and for a while just stirred it idly and stared at nothing. Moog finished his cup and began transferring sugar from the bowl directly to his mouth with a saliva-dampened finger.</span></p>
<p><span>“Well Matty,” said the wizard, “I sure wish—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Shhh!” The king cut him off with a raised finger, glancing quickly back at the kitchen door before leaning across the table and whispering, “Get me the fuck out of here.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel blinked. “What?”</span></p>
<p><span>The king mouthed the words again with exaggerated slowness. “Get me. The fuck. Out of here.”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog looked puzzled. “Why? Matrick, you’re the king! You said yourself you had lots on your plate. The kids—”</span></p>
<p><span>“—aren’t mine!” finished Matrick. “Did you get a</span> <em>look</em><span> at them? I love the little bastards like I love free cake, but I sure as hell had no hand in making them!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Are you,” Clay began, and then lowered his voice. “Are you saying—”</span></p>
<p><span>“I am saying I was fishing in Phantra when the twins were conceived. I’m saying that Lillian has her father’s eyes—</span><em>and mine aren’t fucking blue</em><span>! I’m saying Kerrick is bigger at ten</span> <span>than I was at twenty, and Danigan, well …” Matrick made a frantic gesture that encompassed his head in general. “You’d think the red hair would tip me off, wouldn’t you? But oh no, it took me four more kids to realize they all looked a bit like Lilith and a little like the castle librarian, or the ambassador from Narmeer, or the bloody rose gardener—who I thought was gay, by the way. No offense, Moog.”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard popped the finger out of his mouth. “Why would I—”</span></p>
<p><span>“And now she’s pregnant again?” Matrick’s laugh was a bitter thing. “I’ll bet my kingdom that boy comes out tall as a tree and as hungry for his mothers’ tits as noble Sir Lokan, that flea-bitten Kaskar whoreson!” Matrick was fairly screaming by now, unconcerned whether anyone lingering in the kitchen might hear.</span></p>
<p><span>“Then why don’t you just leave?” asked Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’ve tried!” Matrick moaned. “The guards won’t let me. They’re fiercely loyal to Lilith—I have no idea why.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had some idea why. “What’s the point of keeping you here?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“She’s worried I’ll go off and father a legitimate heir. She said she’d kill me if I ever managed to get away, and now it looks like she wants me out of the picture for good. Remember that man in my room last night—the one you kicked when you came through the mirror? Well, that was one of her assassins. It wasn’t the first one she’s sent after me, and as sure as Hell is cold it won’t be the last if I stick around this place. I need to escape, and I need your help to do it. No way Lilith’ll find someone stupid enough to follow me into the Heartwyld.”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog beamed. “Wait, so does this mean you’ll come to Castia?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Of course I’ll come,” said Matrick. “You shits are the only real family I’ve got.”</span></p>
<p><em>There it is</em><span>, thought Clay,</span> <em>that warm, fuzzy feeling again …</em></p>
<p><span>“The problem is getting away. It will have to be after the council, obviously.”</span></p>
<p><span>“We could use the mirror,” suggested Gabriel, but the king shook his head.</span></p>
<p><span>“Lilith had it confiscated. She claims it’s a threat to castle security. Which it is, I suppose. By the Unholy Dead, I’d forgot the thing was a portal at all, or I’d have jumped through it long ago.”</span></p>
<p><span>“So we can’t leave out the front gate,” Moog reasoned. “And doubtless she’ll have the rest under guard …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Believe it,” said the king.</span></p>
<p><span>“What about that bag of yours, Moog?” asked Gabriel. “You can fit anything in there, right? Matrick could hide inside and we could smuggle him out of the castle.”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard shook his head. “It’s a vacuum.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe frowned. “A what?”</span></p>
<p><span>“A void. There’s no air. He wouldn’t survive longer than he could hold his breath. Trust me. I had a cat once that—” He broke off. “Just … no.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You could kidnap me,” Matrick suggested. “Disguise yourselves, knock me out, fight your way past the guards. We could leave a ransom note …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Lilith would assume it was us,” said Clay. “Also, I’d rather not kill anyone if we don’t have to.”</span></p>
<p><span>Their cups rattled as Moog slammed his hand on the table. “I have it!” he shouted. All eyes turned toward him. The wizard grinned and spared Clay a rueful wink. “It is risky, though.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>