<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter003">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23729a" id="Ref_23729"><span>Chapter Three</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23729a"><span><em>A Good Man</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>“Absolutely not.”</span></p>
<p><span>It was not, apparently, the answer his friend was expecting. Or at least not as emphatically as Clay put it. Gabriel blinked, the fire inside him snuffed out as quickly as it appeared. He looked confused more than anything. Disbelieving. “But Clay—”</span></p>
<p><span>“I said no. I’m not leaving town to go running off west with you. I’m not leaving Ginny behind, or Tally. I’m not going to track down Moog or Matrick or Ganelon—who very probably still hates us all, by the way—and go traipsing across the Heartwyld! Tits of Glif, Gabe, there’s more than a thousand miles between here and Castia, and it ain’t paved with stone, you know.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I know that,” said Gabriel, but Clay spoke over him.</span></p>
<p><span>“Do you?</span> <em>Do you</em><span>, Gabe? Remember the mountains? Remem</span><span>ber the giants in those mountains? Remember the birds—the</span> <span>fucking</span> <em>birds</em><span>, Gabriel—that could snatch those giants up like they were children?”</span></p>
<p><span>His friend grimaced at the recollection; the shadow of wings that spanned the sky. “The rocs are all gone,” said Gabriel, without conviction.</span></p>
<p><span>“Sure, maybe,” Clay allowed. “But are the rasks gone? The yethiks? The ogre clans? How about the thousand-mile-wide forest? Is that still there? Do you remember the Wyld, Gabe? Trees that can walk, wolves that can talk—and hey, do you know if the centaur tribes are still trapping people and eating them? Because</span> <em>I</em><span> do, and they are! And that’s not even mentioning the bloody rot! And you’re asking me to go there? To go</span> <em>through it</em><span>?”</span></p>
<p><span>“We did before,” Gabriel reminded him. “They used to call us the Kings of the Wyld, remember?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah, they did. When we were twenty years younger. When our backs didn’t ache every morning and we didn’t wake up five times a night to piss. But time did what it does best, didn’t it? It beat us up. It broke us down.</span> <em>We got old</em><span>, Gabriel. Too old to do the things we used to, no matter how good we were at doin’ ’em. Too old to cross the Wyld, and too old to make any difference at all if we did.”</span></p>
<p><span>He left the rest unsaid: That even if they managed to reach Castia, somehow evaded the encircling Horde, and made it into the city itself, there was every chance in the world that Rose was already dead.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel leaned in. “She’s alive, Clay.” His eyes were steel again, but his assurance was belied by the threat of tears. “I know she is. I taught her to fight, remember? She’s as good as I ever was. Maybe better. She killed a cyclops by herself!” he said, but sounded as though he were trying to convince himself as much as he was Clay. “They say four thousand survived that battle and made it back to Castia. Four thousand! Rosie made it. Of course she made it.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Maybe, yeah,” said Clay, mostly because there was nothing else to say.</span></p>
<p><span>“I have to go,” Gabriel said. “I have to try and save her, if I can. And I know I’m old. I know I ain’t what I used to be. Not even a shadow,” he admitted sadly. “I guess none of us are. But I am her father—a shitty one, yeah, to have let her go off in the first place, but not so shitty I’ll sit here moaning about my sore back while she’s trapped and probably starving in a city half the world away. But I can’t do it alone.” He laughed sourly. “And even if I could afford to hire mercs, I doubt I could find any willing to go.”</span></p>
<p><em>He has that part right</em><span>, thought Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>“You’re my only hope,” Gabriel said. “Without you—without the band—I’m lost. And so is Rose.” There was a silence after he spoke, weighted with expectation. And then he added, quite unfairly, “What if it were Tally?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay said nothing for a long while. He listened to the creaking boards of his house. He stared at the empty bowls, the wooden spoons resting against the rim of each. He gazed at the tabletop. He looked across at Gabriel and Gabriel looked back. He could see the other man’s chest rise and fall, rise and fall, his heart hammering as Clay’s own thumped quietly on, and he wondered if so simple an organ (just a fist-sized, blood-slick muscle) might not have some premonition of what the mind, perhaps, did not yet know.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’m sorry, Gabe.”</span></p>
<p><span>His friend just sat there. Frowning at first, and then smiling that strange, withered smile.</span></p>
<p><span>“I</span> <em>am</em><span> sorry,” Clay said again.</span></p>
<p><span>Another while passed, and Gabriel … Gabriel just looked at him, tilted his head ever so slightly, and said, after what seemed like forever, “I know you are.”</span></p>
<p><span>He stood. The sound of his chair scraping back was as loud as a falcon’s screech after the long silence between them.</span></p>
<p><span>“You can stay,” Clay offered, but Gabriel shook his head.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’ll go. I left my bag on the step. There’s an inn in town?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay nodded. “Gabriel,” he began, intending to explain … he didn’t know what, exactly. That he was sorry (again). That he couldn’t risk losing Ginny, or leave Tally without a father if he went off west and the worst should happen (and it</span> <em>would</em><span> happen, he was sure of it). That he was</span> <em>comfortable</em><span> here in Coverdale. Content, after so many restless years. And that deep down the thought of crossing the Heartwyld, of going anywhere</span> <em>near</em><span> Castia and the Horde that surrounded it, scared him shitless.</span></p>
<p><em>I’m afraid</em><span>, he wanted to say, but could not.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel, mercifully, cut him short. “Tell Ginny the stew was delicious,” he said. “And tell your daughter Uncle Gabe says hello. Or good-bye, whichever.”</span></p>
<p><em>Offer him boots</em><span>, some part of Clay’s mind insisted.</span> <em>A cloak, at least. Water, or wine, for the road.</em><span> He said nothing instead, just sat there as Gabriel opened the door. Cool air. The wind rustling in the trees outside. The chorus of a hundred thousand crickets in the tall grass.</span></p>
<p><span>Griff looked up from his mat, saw that Gabe was leaving, and promptly fell back asleep.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel stalled on the threshold, looking back.</span> <em>Here it comes</em><span>, thought Clay.</span> <em>The final plea. The scathing remark about how if it were the other way round he would do it for me.</em><span/> <em>Vellichor</em><span> notwithstanding, words had always been Gabe’s most potent weapon. He’d been their leader, back when. The voice of the band. All he said, though, before walking out and tugging the door closed behind him, was “You’re a good man, Clay Cooper.”</span></p>
<p><span>Simple words. Kind ones, even. Not the knife he’d been expecting. Not the piercing sword.</span></p>
<p><span>They still hurt, though.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>His daughter insisted on showing him the frogs the moment she came in the door. She spilled them out on the table before her mother could stop her. One of the four, a big yellow bugger with the nubs of wings not yet grown, made a break for freedom. He leapt off onto the floor, but froze when Griff came at him barking. Tally scooped him up and gave him an admonishing smack on the head before setting him back down with the others. He stayed put this time, too dazed or afraid to move.</span></p>
<p><span>“You’ll scrub the table before you go to bed,” Ginny warned.</span></p>
<p><span>Their daughter shrugged. “Yep. Daddy, guess how many frogs I found!”</span></p>
<p><span>“How many?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“No, guess!”</span></p>
<p><span>He eyed the four frogs on the table. “Umm … one?”</span></p>
<p><span>“No! More than one!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Hmm … fifty?”</span></p>
<p><span>Tally cackled, moving a hand to head off one of the frogs as it neared the edge of the table. “Not fifty! I got four, silly. Can’t you count?”</span></p>
<p><span>She proceeded, with the glowing pride of a horse trader showing off her stable of prized stallions, to introduce her amphibious prisoners one by one, pointing out the peculiarities of each and announcing them by name. She held the big yellow in two hands and thrust him up for Clay to see.</span></p>
<p><span>“This one is Bert. He’s yellow and Mom says he’ll have wings when he grows up. I got him for Uncle Gabriel.” Tally looked around, as though just now realizing Uncle Gabriel was nowhere in sight. “Where is he, asleep?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shared a brief glance with Ginny. “He left. He said to say hello.”</span></p>
<p><span>His daughter frowned. “Is he coming back?”</span></p>
<p><em>Probably never</em><span>, he thought. “Hopefully,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Tally spent a moment digesting this, staring down at the frog in her hands, and then she grinned great big and wide. “Bert will have his wings by then!” she announced, and the nubs on Bert’s back twitched as if in demonstration.</span></p>
<p><span>Ginny came over and smoothed Tally’s hair the same way she did Clay’s. “Okay, whelpling, time for bed. Your friends can wait outside while you sleep.”</span></p>
<p><span>“But, Mom, I’ll</span> <em>lose</em><span> them,” Tally protested.</span></p>
<p><span>“And you will no doubt find them again tomorrow,” said her mother. “I’m sure they’ll be very happy to see you.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay laughed and Ginny smiled.</span></p>
<p><span>“They will,” their daughter assured them. One by one she picked up the frogs and walked them outside, bidding them farewell and giving each a kiss on the brow before setting them free. Ginny winced with every kiss; Clay was just glad none of them turned into princes. He’d had enough of company tonight, and there wasn’t stew left anyway.</span></p>
<p><span>After Tally had scrubbed the table clean she left to wash herself. Griff scampered off behind her. Ginny sat down at the table, took one of Clay’s big hands in both of her own, and squeezed. “Tell me,” she said.</span></p>
<p><span>So he told her.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>Tally was asleep. The lantern beside her bed, shuttered by a metal blind cut with star-shaped holes, cast a flickering constellation across the walls. Her hair glimmered in the soft light, veins of her mother’s gold amidst the plain old brown she’d inherited from her father. She had insisted on a story before bed. She wanted dragons, but dragons were forbidden because they gave her nightmares. Tally asked for them anyway, of course. She was brave that way. He offered her mermaids instead, and a hydrake, which he realized midstory was sort of like seven dragons at once, and he hoped she wouldn’t wake up screaming.</span></p>
<p><span>It was a true story for the most part, though Clay embellished it somewhat (told her he himself struck the fatal blow against the hydrake, when in fact it had been Ganelon) and left out a few details his nine-year-old daughter—or her mother, for that matter—didn’t need to know. Suffice it to say the mermaids had been very gracious afterward, which explained Clay’s fairly comprehensive knowledge of the famously mysterious mermaid anatomy. Truth be told, though, he still didn’t quite understand it.</span></p>
<p><span>He let the story trail off when Tally’s breathing deepened to indicate he was speaking only to himself. Now he sat looking at her face—her tiny mouth, her blushing cheeks, her small, porcelain-perfect nose—and marvelled that Clay Cooper, even with Ginny’s evident contribution, could have produced something so extraordinarily beautiful. He reached out, unable to help himself, and took her hand in his own. Her fingers tightened instinctively on his, and he smiled.</span></p>
<p><span>Her eyes fluttered open. “Daddy?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes, angel?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Is Rosie going to be okay?”</span></p>
<p><span>His heart froze. His mouth opened and closed as his mind groped for a suitable response. “You were listening earlier?” he asked. But of course she’d been. Eavesdropping had become a favourite habit of hers since overhearing him and Ginny whispering one night that they were getting her a pony for her birthday.</span></p>
<p><span>His daughter nodded sleepily. “She’s in trouble, right? Is she going to be okay?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I don’t know,” Clay answered.</span> <em>Yes</em><span>, he should have said.</span> <em>Of course she is.</em><span> You could lie to children if it did them good, couldn’t you?</span></p>
<p><span>“But Uncle Gabe is going to save her,” Tally mumbled. Her eyes drooped shut, and Clay hesitated a moment, hoping she had fallen back asleep. “Right?” she asked, eyes open again.</span></p>
<p><span>This time the lie was ready. “That’s right, honey.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Good,” she said. “But you’re not going with him?”</span></p>
<p><span>“No,” he said softly. “I’m not.”</span></p>
<p><span>“But you would come if it was me, right, Daddy? If I was trapped by bad guys far away? You would come and save me?”</span></p>
<p><span>There was an ache in his chest, a seething rot that might have been shame, or sorrow, or sickening remorse, and was probably all three. He was thinking of Gabriel’s broken smile, the words his oldest friend had uttered before walking out.</span></p>
<p><em>You’re a good man, Clay Cooper.</em></p>
<p><span>“If it was you,” he said in a voice still fierce for how quietly it spoke, “then nothing in the world could stop me.”</span></p>
<p><span>Tally smiled and tightened her tiny grip. “You should save Rosie too, then,” she said.</span></p>
<p><span>And just like that he cracked. Clamped his teeth shut on a sob that threatened to choke him, closed his eyes against the well of tears, too late.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had not always been a good man, but he was certainly trying. He’d curbed his tendency toward violence by signing on with the Watch and using his particularly limited skill set for the greater good. He did his best to be a man worthy of a woman like Ginny, and of their daughter, his darling girl, who was his most precious legacy, the speck of gold siphoned from the clouded river of his soul.</span></p>
<p><span>But there were … measures of goodness, he figured. You could set one thing against another and find that one, if only by the weight of a feather, came out heavier. And that was just it, wasn’t it? To make a choice between the two—the</span> <em>right</em><span> choice—was a burden few had the strength to shoulder.</span></p>
<p><span>To sit idly by—no matter the reason—while his oldest, most cherished friend lost the only thing he’d ever truly loved wasn’t what a good man did. Whatever else he knew, Clay knew that.</span></p>
<p><span>And his daughter knew it, too.</span></p>
<p><span>“Daddy,” she asked, her brow furrowed, “why are you crying?”</span></p>
<p><span>He imagined the smile he put on looked something like the one Gabe had been wearing earlier on the outside step, brittle and broken and sad. “Because,” he said, “I’m going to miss you very much.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>