<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter002">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23726a" id="Ref_23726"><span>Chapter Two</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23726a"><span><em>Rose</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>Once Gabriel recovered himself they went inside. Ginny turned from the stove and her jaw clamped tight. Griff came bounding over, stubby tail wagging. He gave Clay a cursory sniff and then set to smelling Gabe’s leg as though it were a piss-drenched tree, which wasn’t actually too far off the mark.</span></p>
<p><span>His old friend was in a sorry state, no mistake. His hair and beard were a tangled mess, his clothes little more than soiled rags. There were holes in his boots, toes peeking out from the ruined leather like grubby urchins. His hands were busy fidgeting, wringing each other or tugging absentmindedly at the hem of his tunic. Worst of all, though, were his eyes. They were sunk deep in his haggard face, hard and haunted, as though everywhere he looked was something he wished he hadn’t seen.</span></p>
<p><span>“Griff, lay off,” said Clay. The dog, wet eyes and a lolling pink tongue in a black fur face, perked up at the sound of his name. Griff wasn’t the noblest-looking creature, and he didn’t have many uses besides licking food off a plate. He couldn’t herd sheep or flush a grouse from cover, and if anyone ever broke in to the house he was more likely to fetch them slippers than scare ’em off. But it made Clay smile to look at him (that’s how godsdamn adorable he was) and that was worth more than nothing.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gabriel.” Ginny finally found her voice, though she stayed right where she was. Didn’t smile. Didn’t cross to hug him. She’d never much cared for Gabriel. Clay thought she probably blamed his old bandmate for all the bad habits (gambling, fighting, drinking to excess) that she’d spent the last ten years disabusing him of, and all the other bad habits (chewing with his mouth open, forgetting to wash his hands, occasionally throttling people) she was still struggling to purge.</span></p>
<p><span>Heaped upon that were the handful of times Gabe had come calling in the years since his own wife left him. Every time he appeared it was hand in hand with some grand scheme to reunite the old band and strike out once again in search of fame, fortune, and decidedly reckless adventure. There was a town down south needed rescue from a ravaging drake, or a den of walking wolves to be cleared out of the Wailing Forest, or an old lady in some far-flung corner of the realm needed help bringing laundry off the line and only Saga themselves could rise to her aid!</span></p>
<p><span>It wasn’t as though Clay needed Ginny breathing down his neck to refuse, to see that Gabriel longed for something unrecoverable, like an old man clinging to memories of his golden youth.</span> <em>Exactly</em><span> like that, actually. But life, Clay knew, didn’t work that way. It wasn’t a circle; you didn’t go round and round again. It was an arc, its course as inexorable as the sun’s trek across the sky, destined at its highest, brightest moment to begin its fall.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay blinked, having lost himself in his own head. He did that sometimes, and could have wished he was better at putting his thoughts into words. He’d sound a right clever bastard then, wouldn’t he?</span></p>
<p><span>Instead, he’d stood there dumbly as the silence between Ginny and Gabriel lengthened uncomfortably.</span></p>
<p><span>“You look hungry,” she said finally.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel nodded, his hands fidgeting nervously.</span></p>
<p><span>Ginny sighed, and then his wife—his kind, lovely, magnificent wife—forced a tight grin and reclaimed her spoon from the pot she’d been tending earlier. “Sit down then,” she said over her shoulder. “I’ll feed you. I made Clay’s favourite: rabbit stew with mushrooms.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel blinked. “Clay hates mushrooms.”</span></p>
<p><span>Seeing Ginny’s back stiffen, Clay spoke up. “Used to,” he said brightly, before his wife—his quick-tempered, sharp-tongued, utterly terrifying wife—could turn around and crack his skull with that wooden spoon. “Ginny does something to them, though. Makes them taste”—</span><em>Not so fucking awful</em><span>, was what first jumped to mind—“really pretty good,” he finished lamely. “What is it you do to ’em, hun?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I stew them,” she said in the most menacing way a woman could string those three words together.</span></p>
<p><span>Something very much like a smile tugged at the corner of Gabe’s mouth.</span></p>
<p><em>He always did love to watch me squirm,</em><span> Clay remembered. He took a chair and Gabriel followed suit. Griff trundled over to his mat and gave his balls a few good licks before promptly falling asleep. Clay fought down a surge of envy, seeing that. “Tally home?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“Out,” said Ginny. “Somewhere.”</span></p>
<p><span>Somewhere close, he hoped. There were coyotes in the woods nearby. Wolves in the hills. Hell, Ryk Yarsson had seen a centaur out by Tassel’s farm. Or a moose. Either of which might kill a young girl if caught by surprise. “She should’ve been home before dark,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>His wife scoffed at that. “So should you have, Clay Cooper. You putting in extra hours on the wall, or is that the King’s Piss I smell on ya?”</span> <em>King’s Piss</em><span> was her name for the beer they served at the pub. It was a fair assessment, and Clay had laughed the first time she’d said it. Didn’t seem as funny at the moment, however.</span></p>
<p><span>Not to Clay, anyway, though Gabriel’s mood seemed to be lightening a bit. His old friend was smirking like a boy watching his brother take heat for a crime he didn’t commit.</span></p>
<p><span>“She’s just down in the marsh,” Ginny said, fishing two ceramic bowls from the cupboard. “Be glad it’s only frogs she’ll bring home with her. It’ll be boys soon enough, and you’ll have plenty cause to worry then.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Won’t be me needs to worry,” Clay mumbled.</span></p>
<p><span>Ginny scoffed at that, too, and he might have asked why had she not set a steaming bowl of stew in front of him. The wafting scent drew a ravenous growl from his stomach, even if there were mushrooms in it.</span></p>
<p><span>His wife took her cloak off the peg by the door. “I’ll go and be sure Tally’s all right,” she said. “Might be she needs help carrying those frogs.” She came over and kissed Clay on the top of his head, smoothing his hair down afterward. “You boys have fun catching up.”</span></p>
<p><span>She got as far as opening the door before hesitating, looking back. First at Gabriel, already scooping at his bowl as if it were the first meal he’d had in a long while, and then at Clay, and it wasn’t until a few days after (a hard choice and too many miles away already) that he understood what he’d seen in her eyes just then. A kind of sorrow, thoughtful and resigned, as though she already knew—his loving, beautiful, remarkably</span> <em>astute</em><span> wife—what was coming, inevitable as winter, or a river’s winding course to the sea.</span></p>
<p><span>A chill wind blew in from outside. Ginny shivered despite her cloak, then she left.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>“It’s Rose.”</span></p>
<p><span>They had finished eating, set their bowls aside. He should have put them in the basin, Clay knew, got them soaking so they wouldn’t be such a chore to clean later, but it suddenly seemed like he couldn’t leave the table just now. Gabriel had come in the night, from a long way off, to say something. Best to let him say it and be done.</span></p>
<p><span>“Your daughter?” Clay prompted.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe nodded slowly. His hands were both flat on the table. His eyes were fixed, unfocused, somewhere between them. “She is …</span><em>willful</em><span>,” he said finally. “Impetuous. I wish I could say she gets it from her mother, but …” That smile again, just barely. “You remember I was teaching her to use a sword?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I remember telling you that was a bad idea,” said Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>A shrug from Gabriel. “I just wanted her to be able to protect herself. You know, stick ’em with the pointy end and all that. But she wanted more. She wanted to be …” he paused, searching for the word, “ … great.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Like her father?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel’s expression turned sour. “Just so. She heard too many stories, I think. Got her head filled with all this nonsense about being a hero, fighting in a band.”</span></p>
<p><em>And from whom could she have heard all that?</em><span> Clay wondered.</span></p>
<p><span>“I know,” said Gabriel, perceiving his thoughts. “Partly my fault, I won’t deny it. But it wasn’t just me. Kids these days … they’re obsessed with these mercenaries, Clay. They worship them. It’s unhealthy. And most of these mercs aren’t even in real bands! They just hire a bunch of nameless goons to do their fighting while they paint their faces and parade around with shiny swords and fancy armour. There’s even one guy—I shit you not—who rides a manticore into battle!”</span></p>
<p><span>“A manticore?” asked Clay, incredulous.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe laughed bitterly. “I know, right? Who the fuck</span> <em>rides</em><span> a manticore? Those things are dangerous! Well, I don’t need to tell you.”</span></p>
<p><span>He didn’t, of course. Clay had a nasty-looking puncture scar on his right thigh, testament to the hazards of tangling with such monsters. A manticore was nobody’s pet, and it certainly wasn’t fit to ride. As if slapping wings and a poison-barbed tail on a lion made it somehow a</span> <em>fine</em><span> idea to climb on its back!</span></p>
<p><span>“They worshipped us, too,” Clay pointed out. “Well</span> <em>you</em><span>, anyway. And Ganelon. They tell the stories, even still. They sing the songs.”</span></p>
<p><span>The stories were exaggerated, naturally. The songs, for the most part, were wildly inaccurate. But they persisted. Had lasted long after the men themselves had outlived who (or what) they’d been.</span></p>
<p><em>We were giants once.</em></p>
<p><span>“It’s not the same,” Gabriel persisted. “You should see the crowds gather when these bands come to town, Clay. People screaming, women crying in the streets.”</span></p>
<p><span>“That sounds horrible,” said Clay, meaning it.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel ignored him, pressing on. “Anyhow, Rose wanted to learn the sword, so I indulged her. I figured she’d get bored of it sooner or later, and that if she was going to learn, it might as well be from me. And also it made her mother mad as hell.”</span></p>
<p><span>It would have, Clay knew. Her mother, Valery, despised violence and weapons of any kind, along with those who used either toward any end whatsoever. It was partly because of Valery that Saga had dissolved all those years ago.</span></p>
<p><span>“Problem was,” said Gabriel, “she was good. Really good, and that’s not just a father’s boasts. She started out sparring against kids her age, but when they gave up getting their asses whooped she went out looking for street fights, or wormed her way into sponsored matches.”</span></p>
<p><span>“The daughter of Golden Gabe himself,” Clay mused. “Must’ve been quite the draw.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I guess so,” his friend agreed. “But then one day Val saw the bruises. Lost her mind. Blamed me, of course, for everything. She put her foot down—you know how she gets—and for a while Rose stopped fighting, but …” He trailed off, and Clay saw his jaw clamp down on something bitter. “After her mother left, Rosie and I … didn’t get along so well, either. She started going out again. Sometimes she wouldn’t come home for days. There were more bruises, and a few nastier scrapes besides. She chopped her hair off—thank the Holy Tetrea her mother was gone by then, or mine would’ve been next. And then came the cyclops.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Cyclops?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel looked at him askance. “Big bastards, one huge eye right here on their head?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay leveled a glare of his own. “I know what a cyclops is, asshole.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Then why did you ask?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I didn’t …” Clay faltered. “Never mind. What</span> <em>about</em><span> the cyclops?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel sighed. “Well, one settled down in that old fort north of Ottersbrook. Stole some cattle, some goats, a dog, and then killed the folks that went looking for ’em. The courtsmen had their hands full, so they were looking for someone to clear the beast out for them. Only there weren’t any mercs around at the time—or none with the chops to take on a cyclops, anyway. Somehow my name got tossed into the pot. They even sent someone round to ask if I would, but I told them no. Hell, I don’t even own a sword anymore!”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay cut in again, aghast. “What? What about</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel’s eyes were downcast. “I … uh … sold it.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I’m sorry?” Clay asked, but before his friend could repeat himself he put his own hands flat on the table, for fear they would ball into fists, or snatch one of the bowls nearby and smash it over Gabriel’s head. He said, as calmly as he could manage, “For a second there I thought you said that</span> <em>you sold Vellichor</em><span>. As in the sword entrusted to you by the Archon himself as he lay dying? The sword he used to carve a fucking doorway from his world to ours.</span> <em>That</em><span> sword? You sold</span> <em>that sword</em><span>?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel, who had slumped deeper into his chair with every word, nodded. “I had debts to pay, and Valery wanted it out of the house after she found out I taught Rose to fight,” he said meekly. “She said it was dangerous.”</span></p>
<p><span>“She—” Clay stopped himself. He leaned back in his chair, kneading his eyes with the palms of his hands. He groaned, and Griff, sensing his frustration, groaned himself from his mat in the corner. “Finish your story,” he said at last.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel continued. “Well, needless to say, I refused to go after the cyclops, and for the next few weeks it caused a fair bit of havoc. And then suddenly word got around that someone had gone out and killed it.” He smiled, wistful and sad. “All by herself.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Rose,” Clay said. Didn’t make it a question. Didn’t need to.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel’s nod confirmed it. “She was a celebrity overnight. Bloody Rose, they called her. A pretty good name, actually.”</span></p>
<p><em>It is</em><span>, Clay agreed, but didn’t bother saying so. He was still fuming about the sword. The sooner Gabe said whatever it was he’d come here to say, the sooner Clay could tell his oldest, dearest friend to get the hell out of his house and never come back.</span></p>
<p><span>“She even got her own band going,” Gabe went on. “They managed to clear out a few nests around town: giant spiders, some old carrion wyrm down in the sewer that everyone forgot was still alive. But I hoped—” he bit his lip “—I still hoped, even then, that she might choose another path. A better path. Instead of following mine.” He looked up. “Until the summons came from the Republic of Castia, asking every able sword to march against the Heartwyld Horde.”</span></p>
<p><span>For a heartbeat Clay wondered at the significance of that. Until he remembered the news he’d heard earlier that evening. An army of twenty thousand, routed by a vastly more numer</span><span>ous host; the survivors surrounded in Castia, doubtless wishing</span> <span>they had died on the battlefield rather than endure the atrocities of a city under siege.</span></p>
<p><span>Which meant that Gabriel’s daughter was dead. Or she would be, when the city fell.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay opened his mouth to speak, to try to keep the heartbreak from his voice as he did so. “Gabe, I—”</span></p>
<p><span>“I’m going after her, Clay. And I need you with me.” Gabriel leaned forward in his chair, the flame of a father’s fear and anger alight in his eyes. “It’s time to get the band back together.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>