<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter035">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23825a" id="Ref_23825"><span>Chapter Thirty-five</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23825a"><span><em>The Cannibal Court</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>They followed the Ferals back into the tangled forest, striking</span><span> south until they came to a bluff of chalky white stone. There was a small camp here in which they spent the night. The band was offered shelter in a tall skin tent that had apparently belonged to the Feral champion, Dook. Teresa came to offer them supper, which was in fact just an assortment of severed hands, but Gabriel refused on their behalf, and for a second night running Clay was happy to gobble down whatever Moog’s hat was serving up.</span></p>
<p><span>Come morning they followed the cliff face west, and as the afternoon waxed the air grew damp and sticky with heat. The trees here were enormous, with trunks that would have taken Clay a full minute to jog around. A troop of orange-furred monkeys tracked them from the canopy above, and upon some unknown signal began screaming and pelting the party with dung.</span></p>
<p><span>What Clay assumed was harmless mischief, however, was anything but. One of the sloppy pellets landed on Jeremy’s bald head, and the cannibal wailed as the flesh beneath it sizzled and sloughed away. Other tribesmen cowered beneath wicker shields that caught fire when struck. Finally Teresa ordered a return volley of arrows and darts, which scattered the primates and brought one shrieking down with a feathered shaft in its chest.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog, naturally, took special interest in its corpse. “Holy Tetrea, they’re spark monkeys!” He glanced excitedly at the others, but his enthusiasm was met by his bandmates with underwhelmed stares. “Half my colleagues at Oddsford didn’t believe they were real. This might mean the entire pyromate genus exists as well. Scorch apes! Ember chimps! My gods, the ramifications …”</span></p>
<p><span>Teresa’s Ferals were moving on, eager to be away before their assailants regrouped, and Gabriel led the others after them. Clay, the last to leave the site besides Moog, pretended he didn’t</span> <span>see the wizard take a furtive look around before sneaking the dead monkey into his bag.</span></p>
<p><span>The sky was beginning to take on a darker shade of purple when the elder informed them they were nearing their destination. Craning his neck, Clay could see a palisade wall on the summit upon which headless corpses were impaled and left to bloat in the sun. Teresa pointed out a narrow switchback trail, and as they climbed the band was treated to the sight of yet more stakes, these ones adorned with severed heads in various states of desiccation. The elder stopped beside one to shoo a crow from pecking at a gory eye socket.</span></p>
<p><span>The Boneface village was like most other tribal settlements Clay had visited throughout his years of adventuring, except there were no animals in sight and considerably more body parts lying around. Arms and legs were stacked like kindling beside guttering cook fires; sheets of flayed skin had been left to dry on slatted racks. There were cages occupied by desultory-looking prisoners awaiting their turn in the pot. Most of these appeared to be Ferals from rival tribes, but Clay and the others were asked to wait near to where a massive ettin had been chained by both of its necks to a slab of jutting stone.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had encountered a few ettins in his day. He knew that despite their huge size and monstrous appearance they weren’t particularly inclined toward violence. Sure, if you pissed one off they were real bastards, but like any savage thing it helped if you approached them with kindness instead of open aggression.</span></p>
<p><span>That being said, the first instinct of anyone confronted by a hulking man-giant with two heads was usually to either run from it or kill it dead.</span></p>
<p><span>One of the monster’s heads caught Clay staring and smiled toothily. “Good afternoon!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Urg …” Clay’s first attempt at a reply was a hoarse croak. “Hi,” he managed eventually.</span></p>
<p><span>“Fine weather we’re having today, aren’t we?” the ettin asked.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay looked up. Cobalt clouds of acidic rain crowded the rapidly darkening sky. “Could be worse,” he replied with a shrug.</span></p>
<p><span>The creature nodded, rattling the collar at its throat. “Indeed it could be. My sentiments exactly.”</span></p>
<p><span>The other head, which had been sleeping until now, roused itself groggily. When it turned toward Clay it was all he could do not to recoil in horror. It was hideously deformed: its nose a bruised smear, its mouth a gaping hole of shattered teeth. What few wisps of hair it possessed hung limply across a bulbous skull. Its eyes were the yellow-white of curdled milk, and when it spoke it confirmed Clay’s suspicion that the creature was blind.</span></p>
<p><span>“Is someone there, brother?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes, Dane,” said the first head. “We have illustrious guests! A band, by the looks of them. I’m sorry, I didn’t catch your name …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Clay. Cooper,” he said, doing his best not to gawk at the ruinous face. He introduced the others, careful to call Larkspur by her newly assumed name. Gabriel mumbled a greeting, but his eyes were glued to the mountains bordering the western horizon. Ganelon nodded but said nothing, Matrick waved a curt hello, and Moog, ever the amiable one, marched over to shake the ettin’s hand.</span></p>
<p><span>“Arcandius Moog,” the wizard introduced himself. “Archmagus and alchemy enthusiast.”</span></p>
<p><span>“A pleasure to make your acquaintance, Arcandius,” said the first head. “My name is Gregor, and this handsome gentleman is my brother, Dane. Say hello, Dane.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Hello,” said Dane.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay was still trying to reconcile the word</span> <em>handsome</em><span> with the abomination before him, and was grateful when Moog took the reins of conversation from his hands.</span></p>
<p><span>“Nice to meet you both,” the wizard said. He paused to watch two grubby children run past. One was chasing the other, wielding a severed arm like a club. “I only wish it was under better circumstances.”</span></p>
<p><span>The first head, Gregor, shrugged the shoulder that belonged to him. “The circumstances could hardly be better,” he declared. “My brother and I have been honoured guests of the Boneface tribe for several months now. They’ve gifted us these beautiful golden torcs you see around our necks. They feast us nightly on roast pheasant and warm wine, and in return we’ve helped them build a proud and glorious wall around their lovely village.”</span></p>
<p><em>Proud and glorious wall?</em><span> Clay scowled at the crude palisade encompassing the so-called</span> <em>lovely</em><span> cannibal village. The Ferals had skewered bodies on the pointed tips and used blood to paint vulgar murals on its surface.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog was confused as well. “Torcs? Those are—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Beautiful, are they not?” Gregor shot the wizard a conspiratorial wink. “I only wish Dane could see how they shine. Alas, my poor brother was born blind, and so it is left to me to describe in detail the splendour of our surroundings.”</span></p>
<p><span>Dane smiled his awful smile, lifting one hand to the iron slave collar at his throat. “It</span> <em>feels</em><span> beautiful,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>“It is!” his brother agreed. “I wouldn’t be surprised if it was crafted by the druins themselves.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay wouldn’t have been surprised if it was stolen from the neck of a dead ox. He didn’t say so, though. And neither did Moog.</span></p>
<p><span>“You might be right,” said the wizard. He wore a crooked smile, and Clay caught the glint of moisture in the old man’s eyes. “Indeed, I think you are. Druin forged, no doubt.”</span></p>
<p><span>Dane’s smile widened even further, and Gregor offered Moog a gracious nod.</span></p>
<p><span>They waited, and while they did a trio of Ferals went by, each dragging a net crammed with the bodies of those Ganelon and the others (but mostly Ganelon) had slain in the forest earlier. For a brief moment Clay assumed the fallen hunters were to be given a proper burial, but then he remembered where he was. A few nearby villagers looked on hungrily, apparently fine with the idea of eating tomorrow those whom they had called friends today. He practically saw them salivate when the corpse of Dook was hauled into the village.</span></p>
<p><span>Gregor described the morbid procession to his brother as it went by. “The brave hunters have returned!” he said. “And oh, what bounty! Dane, I wish you could see. There are spotted deer, and a great white stag whose antlers are so big they scrape furrows in the earth beneath him. They have five—no, six—braces of grouse, and a few fat turkeys. Oh, and here come the pheasants! I hope you’re not sick of pheasant, Dane!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Never!” cried Dane.</span></p>
<p><span>Gregor went on long after the hunters were gone, recounting a pageant so detailed and exotic that Clay almost closed his eyes himself so that he could listen without being betrayed by his sight. Instead, he watched Dane’s broken face light up with wonder, and felt a warmth in his heart, the kind that crept up on you during the first stirring notes of a song and then nestled in your lap like a purring cat.</span></p>
<p><span>That Gregor put such effort into describing for his brother a world that was so much more appealing than the one in which they actually lived … It was a gift, Clay decided. A profound and extraordinary blessing bestowed upon one whom the world had effectively cursed.</span></p>
<p><span>It was damned</span> <em>noble</em><span> was what it was.</span></p>
<p><span>A short time later Teresa emerged from the chieftain’s tent and scuffed his way over. “CHIEF SEE YOU NOW,” he declared, holding up three fingers. “ONLY TWO INSIDE.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel cocked his head. “Two? Or three?”</span></p>
<p><span>“TWO,” said Teresa, brandishing the same three fingers.</span></p>
<p><span>“I don’t …” Gabe shook his head. “Never mind. Clay, Moog, with me.”</span></p>
<p><span>The elder raised no objections at all when the three of them followed him across the track.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>The chieftain’s tent was shaped like a cone, the skin of gods-knew-what stretched over a frame of tall wooden poles. There was a steady stream of smoke issuing from a hole at its peak, and when they stepped inside the dim interior it was thick with a haze that smelled oddly familiar.</span></p>
<p><span>Glancing down, Clay found himself standing on a fleshy mat with the word</span> <em>Welcome</em><span> etched out in the common tongue. “I …” he began, before a cry from Moog cut him short.</span></p>
<p><span>“Kit!”</span></p>
<p><span>The ghoul, whom Clay had forgot about entirely until this moment, was standing just inside the door, flanked by a pair of Feral guardsmen. He was still dressed in that bedsheet robe, and had accessorised with a red silk scarf to conceal the grisly wound in his throat.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gentleman, hello. I apologise for leaving the ship unattended, but our hosts were rather insistent I accompany them here.”</span></p>
<p><span>“The ship is gone,” Gabe told him. “Burned.”</span></p>
<p><span>Kit frowned, but before he could respond the wizard stepped up and embraced him. “I thought you were dead!”</span></p>
<p><span>“I</span> <em>am</em><span> dead,” muttered the ghoul as Teresa offered them each a bowl. The contents looked deceptively like wine. Clay looked warily at his while Kit took a tentative sip.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s blood,” he warned them.</span></p>
<p><span>“Human?” Moog asked.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay fixed him with an incredulous glare. “Does it matter?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard frowned into his bowl without answering.</span></p>
<p><span>“COME!” shouted Teresa, beckoning them farther inside the tent. There was a fire pit in the centre; several skulls stuffed with what smelled like Taino’s curative weed were nestled among the smouldering coals. Smoke poured from their empty sockets, clouding the tent. Across the pit, Clay saw the Boneface chieftain lying on a bed of black furs. He wasn’t sure what he’d been expecting, but a huge naked woman had definitely not been it.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay shuddered to imagine how much flesh a person had to consume to grow so large. Her entire body was painted white, so that her massive limbs looked like pale sausages drawn to bursting at her wrists and ankles. Her breasts were sagging pillows on her chest, and her flabby chin rested on a shelf of other, flabbier chins. She wore a headdress that looked like a scaffolding of tiny bones; her black hair coiled through it like vines on a garden trellis. One of her beefy arms cradled a painted red skull, lacquered to a gleam, while the other rested in the lap of a servant, who was kneading the palm of the chieftain’s hand.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gods of Grandual,” Moog gasped. “Her fingers.”</span></p>
<p><span>Looking closer, Clay saw that her fingers were black and shriveled, like wood reduced to char after a fire. His mind recoiled in horror, and it was an effort not to give voice to the word that echoed like a curse in his head.</span></p>
<p><em>Rot.</em></p>
<p><span>She wasn’t sick, then, as the others had claimed. She was dead. It was only a matter of time. Moog, Clay saw, was transfixed by the infected fingers, like a man matching the gaze of an ancient nemesis.</span></p>
<p><span>The elder knelt and murmured quiet words in the chieftain’s ear. She said nothing in reply, but handed him the lacquered skull. Teresa scuttled closer to the fire. He pried open the crown and packed it with sticky brown clumps of mudweed before placing the skull among the others on the bed of glowing coals. When it started to smoke he snatched it up and returned to the chieftain. She palmed it with a pudgy hand and held the skull’s face to hers, inhaling the vapour trickling from its grinning mouth.</span></p>
<p><span>Afterward she sagged into her furs, exhaling smoke in a long, languid stream before saying something too quiet to hear.</span></p>
<p><span>Teresa addressed the three of them from his knees. “CHIEF GLAD YOU COME. HAS WANT TO TRADE.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Trade what?” asked Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“THIS ONE,” said the elder, pointing at Kit. “IS DEAD MAN. BAD FLESH. NO CAN EAT.”</span></p>
<p><span>The ghoul self-consciously fingered the red silk scarf at his throat. “That’s true. I would taste dreadful.”</span></p>
<p><span>“WANT TRADE FOR ANOTHER,” Teresa announced. “ONE FOR ONE.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe scowled. “You want to trade us Kit in exchange for … someone else?”</span></p>
<p><span>Teresa nodded. “TRADE FOR WING WOMAN, YES.”</span></p>
<p><span>“They want Sabbatha,” Clay said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Larkspur,” Gabe corrected. “Fine by me.” Teresa beamed and began relating the good news to the chieftain.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog tore his gaze from the chieftain’s afflicted fingers. “What? We can’t just</span> <em>give</em><span> them Sabbatha!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Who is Sabbatha?” Kit inquired.</span></p>
<p><span>“Why not?” Gabriel turned on the wizard. “She’s not one of us. She tried to kill us, remember?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah, but—”</span></p>
<p><span>“But she’s changed? Well what if she changes back?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I feel like I’m missing something,” muttered Kit.</span></p>
<p><span>“She might not change back.” Moog sounded as though he were trying to convince himself as much as Gabriel. “Taino said she might stay this way forever.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Or she could snap back tomorrow,” Gabe countered. “Anyway, I don’t see what choice we have, Moog. It’s her or the zombie.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Revenant,” Kit pointed out, though neither Gabe nor the wizard paid heed.</span></p>
<p><span>“So what?” Moog spluttered. “We just hand her over? They’ll</span> <em>eat</em><span> her, Gabriel.”</span></p>
<p><span>“NO EAT!” Teresa interjected. “NO EAT WING WOMAN.”</span> <span>Some of the fight went out of Moog then, and Gabe actually looked relieved, until the elder smiled excitedly. “USE FOR MAKE BABIES.”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog threw up his hands, exasperated. “Babies! They’re going to</span> <em>breed</em><span> with her, Gabriel. Are you still okay with this?”</span></p>
<p><span>“She’s dangerous,” Gabe murmured, but without his earlier conviction.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog jabbed a finger on Gabriel’s plate armour. “</span><em>You’re</em><span> dangerous. Heathen’s bloody balls,</span> <em>I’m</em><span> dangerous. Ganelon’s a natural fucking disaster! Excuse my language,” he said to the chieftain, though if she understood him she gave no indication. “So Sabbatha has a sordid past! Don’t we all? We’ve all done plenty of things we’re not proud of.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay thought of Ganelon trapped in the Quarry, a prisoner in his own flesh. “We can’t give them Larkspur,” he said. “Or Sabbatha, whichever she is. We just … can’t.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel sighed in resignation. “Okay, fine. So Kit stays?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I feel like that should be off the table by now,” Kit said. “Also, I am lamentably ill equipped for making babies.”</span></p>
<p><span>“No one stays,” Clay uttered.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel set his jaw. “We fight, then.” He glanced around, trying to number the guards within the smoke-shrouded interior of the tent.</span></p>
<p><span>There were six, Clay knew, since he’d already counted, though one was an old man and was holding his spear upside down.</span></p>
<p><span>“You and I can handle these,” he told Gabriel. “Moog, you get outside and warn the others. Light some fires, maybe open a few of those cages we saw. Gabe and I will be right behind you. Got it?”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog closed his eyes. “No.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Good. Now when … wait,</span> <em>no</em><span>?”</span></p>
<p><span>“There’s another way,” said the wizard. “A better way. We don’t need to kill anyone, or leave one of us behind.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay glanced over Gabriel’s shoulder. The chieftain was watching them with the appraising regard of something waiting for you to die so it could peck at your corpse.</span></p>
<p><span>“Moog, if it involves faking our deaths I don’t think it’s gonna work this time.”</span></p>
<p><span>“No, I know,” said Moog. He reached up and pulled the pointed hat off his head. “But this will.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>