<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter018">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23774a" id="Ref_23774"><span>Chapter Eighteen</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23774a"><span><em>All That Glitters</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>To most who lived in Fivecourt, Coinbarrow was considered the bad part of town. To those visiting from lands beyond, it was usually the first stop after they arrived.</span></p>
<p><span>While the north shore of the river was fronted by palatial manors with manicured lawns, elaborate hedge-mazes, and stone jetties where pleasure barges and white-sailed dhows bobbed on the drowsy current, the south side was more what Clay would have expected a harbourfront in Grandual’s largest city to look like.</span></p>
<p><span>Here were the gambling holes, the scratch dens, the smokehouses; here the seedy taverns, the wild brothels, the raucous inns. Here were the pawnshops and fence stalls,</span> <span>the moneylenders and the rowdy, run-down theatres where</span> <span>the actors were twice as drunk as the standing crowd and half as entertaining.</span></p>
<p><span>Block for block, Coinbarrow was home to more fighting pits than anywhere west of Phantra. Fortunes were won and lost on contests pitting desperate men against vile monsters, vile monsters against vicious dogs, vicious dogs against strutting cocks, and the ever-popular (and wildly unpredictable) desperate men and vicious dogs against vile monsters and strutting cocks.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gods, but I’ve missed this place,” said Matrick, hopping down from the carriage and stretching his arms.</span></p>
<p><span>“The prodigal son returns,” quipped Moog, whose wild white fringe and soiled pyjamas helped him blend right in with the colourful denizens of Fivecourt’s filthy dockside.</span></p>
<p><span>Even at night the streets were crowded. As he stepped clear of the carriage Clay recalled the very first time he’d ever set foot in Coinbarrow. He and Gabriel had come in search of cheap lodgings while Kallorek was trying to secure them gigs. It had been morning at the time, and the quay was simultaneously bustling with industry and teeming with those best described as orc-shit crazy. Gabriel, probably thinking he was doing a fine job of talking the place up, had assured Clay that come nightfall it was just as lively, except everyone was orc-shit crazy.</span></p>
<p><span>On the nearest corner, for instance, was a man in dirty green robes beseeching passersby to repent their sins at the shrine to the Spring Maiden, while on the opposite corner stood an immaculately dressed man proclaiming that two blocks over was a back-alley brothel in which Glif herself would spread her legs for a silver crown.</span></p>
<p><span>“Wait here,” Gabriel told the driver. “We won’t be gone very long.”</span></p>
<p><span>The man narrowed his eyes and frowned below a bushy moustache. “I’ll be needing some collateral from you, then,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel looked momentarily defeated, but then Matrick offered the man one of his jewelled knives—either</span> <em>Roxy</em><span> or</span> <em>Grace</em><span>. Clay had never known which dagger was which.</span></p>
<p><span>“If you leave without giving this back,” said Matrick, “I will hunt you to the curling edge of the fucking map and pull your tongue out through your ass. Are we clear?”</span></p>
<p><em>Good to see being king only softened his stomach</em><span>, Clay thought amusedly.</span></p>
<p><span>A fight broke out on one of the merchant ships moored nearby, and the birds out front of the carriage baulked at the sound of shouts and ringing steel. Akra instinctively changed colour when they were startled or distressed, and the feathers of one were already flushed pink.</span></p>
<p><span>The driver looked appraisingly at the knife Matrick had given him. “Clear as glass,” he said. “But you pay double the fare from here to Pearling Heights. Unless you’d rather I go and see if the</span> <em>real</em><span> Screaming Eagles need a lift,” he added, when it looked as though Matty meant to throttle him.</span></p>
<p><span>“Fine,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay hadn’t the slightest idea how Gabe planned on paying a double fare—or any fare at all, for that matter—but decided to keep his mouth shut.</span></p>
<p><span>“And a word to the would-be wise,” said the driver. “The next time you lot decide to masquerade as mercenaries, maybe don’t choose one of the most famous bands in all of Grandual. The Eagles are headlining the Maxithon tomorrow. There may be a few cheap seats left if you’ve a mind to see real mercs at work.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel turned on his heel and set off toward the shadowed mouth of the nearest alley. Moog and Matrick hurried after, leaving Clay the choice between staying to ponder the staggering irony of the driver’s words or to follow along.</span></p>
<p><span>“Hey, wait up,” he said.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>Gabriel led them up a set of rickety stairs set against the shabby tenement on their right. The boards creaked dangerously beneath Clay’s heavy tread, and somehow the reek of stale piss got stronger the higher he climbed. They’d surprised a pair of trash imps upon entering the alley below. The critters had squealed piteously and scampered into the darkness farther down the way, but now they returned to continue a spirited tug-of-war over what looked to Clay like a broken latrine seat.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel knocked on the warped wooden door at the top of the stairs, and when the hovel’s occupant failed to materialize he hammered it with his whole forearm, which set the sign above the door teetering on its rusting hook.</span></p>
<p><span>“</span><em>Fender’s Cakes and Custards</em><span>,” Moog read aloud.</span></p>
<p><span>“Seriously?” Matrick looked dubious. “We came to an alley in Coinbarrow for dessert?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Fender!” Gabe shouted, giving the trash imps below another scare. “Open up.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Who’s Fender?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“A friend,” Gabe answered. “He collects things, sells things,</span> <span>stores things …”</span></p>
<p><span>“So he’s a fence?”</span></p>
<p><span>“He’s a kobold.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay decided to stop asking questions, since Gabe’s enigmatic answers only spawned more. Fivecourt was one of the very few cities that granted a form of limited citizenship to nonhumans, so long as they behaved themselves. He supposed a kobold was as capable as any creature of living among humans, though Clay had never seen one outside a cave or a</span> <span>sewer—or without several hundred others of its kind yapping</span> <span>angrily alongside it.</span></p>
<p><span>Half a minute passed. The discordant music of half a dozen taverns wafted over the rooftops above. A pair of Carteans staggered by the alley mouth, trading poorly sung snatches of song back and forth. Something dripped into Clay’s hair, and when he looked up to discern whether or not it was raining (it wasn’t), another drop found his open mouth.</span></p>
<p><span>“Vail’s bloody fucking—”</span></p>
<p><span>The</span> <em>thunk</em><span> of a bolt being thrown came from beyond the door, then another, and another. Clay heard the</span> <em>slink</em><span> of several chains, followed by the scrape of a wooden plank being drawn from its brackets. At last a reedy voice called from within. “Is open!”</span></p>
<p><em>Pretty tight security for a custard joint,</em><span> Clay might have joked, had he not been busy trying to figure out what the hell had trickled past his lips just now. His tongue tasted like he’d fished a copper coin out of a sewer drain and popped it in his mouth.</span></p>
<p><span>“Careful,” Gabe whispered, before easing open the door. When nothing barreled out at him he crept over the threshold, and the others cautiously followed.</span></p>
<p><span>Inside it was dark. The smell of urine retreated as its cohorts mould, dust, and rusting metal advanced in its place. Clay could hear something scuttling in the shadows, and detected the faint sound of rasping breath from somewhere nearby. The roof was so low it grazed Clay’s head if he didn’t stoop a little.</span></p>
<p><span>“Something tells me the cake was a lie,” grumbled Matrick.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay became aware of several pairs of lights floating like wisps in the darkness, faint as shuttered lamps.</span></p>
<p><span>“Whoosit?” came the shrill voice again. “Name you, now!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Fender—” Gabriel began.</span></p>
<p><span>“Fender is Fender.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah, I know that. I’m Gabe.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Gabe? I know Gabe. Good Gabe Good.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Good Gabe Good, that’s me. Hey, can we maybe get some light in here?”</span></p>
<p><span>The speaker clapped its hand and barked, “Chittens! Lights!”</span></p>
<p><span>A series of scratches sounded all it once. The sour reek of sulfur barged in to rub shoulders with mould and rusted metal, and a trio of fish-oil lanterns sputtered to life. The band found themselves surrounded by scrawny kobold children—five of them, by Clay’s count—each of them wearing a pair of soot-smeared goggles, which dimmed the glow of their bright yellow eyes. Two of them were holding knives.</span></p>
<p><span>Fender—presumably their father—crouched opposite the door. He was no taller than Matrick’s waist, and looked like nothing so much as a scraggly rat standing on its hind legs. He was wearing goggles as well, and also, unbelievably, the</span> <em>exact same pyjamas</em><span> as Moog, except he had a tasselled cap and pointed slippers to match. He was also hoisting a loaded crossbow with the safety sprung and three long bolts glinting in the dim light.</span></p>
<p><span>“Maiden’s Mercy, Fender.” Gabe raised his hands slowly. “Put that thing away.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Is nice, yes?” The kobold gave the crossbow a loving pat, which rattled the bolts and set the trigger wire trembling. Clay went rigid, Gabriel flinched, while Moog and Matrick each tried to place themselves in front of the other and ended up in an awkward embrace.</span></p>
<p><span>“Fender!” shouted Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“Sorry me, sorry me.” The kobold set the weapon aside without resetting the safety, which prompted Clay to wonder if he even knew it existed. He pushed the goggles up onto his forehead, his yellow eyes glowing bright in the gloom. “Why come you now? Is late night. Fender and chittens were sleep-dreaming.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay squinted into the shadows, assessing the room. The place was a hovel, but not the cozy hovel of the sort inhabited by poets and scribes, crammed with bookshelves, candles, and antique curios. Nor was it the sparse kind of hovel, occupied by little more than a ragged blanket and a straw-stuffed mattress: It was a kobold’s hovel, and that meant shithole.</span></p>
<p><span>He caught sight of several small nests in the far corner of the room, presumably what Fender and his children (or chittens, as the kobold called them) employed as beds. The rest of the cramped space was given over to what could best be described as entirely useless junk. Among the many pointless treasures was an old bronze helmet with the skull staved in, the tarnished silver frame of a broken mirror, a box of assorted cutlery, and dozens of jars and cans filled to spilling with copper pennies, brass buttons, and just about anything else that might catch a kobold’s eye.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe swiped a strand of dirty blond hair from his eyes. “I left some money with you a while back. A big bag of coins.”</span></p>
<p><span>The kobold cocked its head, wrinkling its pink nose and twitching its mangled whiskers. “Shiny?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes, shiny. Lots of shiny, for you to keep safe while I was gone, remember?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes, yes. Fender remembers. Fender hope Good Gabe Good fall in hole and die. That way shiny keep to Fender.” Despite the ugly sentiment, the kobold’s words carried no animosity at all, just plain old wishful thinking.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay flashed Gabriel a skeptical glance. “A friend of yours, huh?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I didn’t fall in a hole, Fender. Sorry.”</span></p>
<p><span>The kobold sniffed. “Too bad.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah. Well, no, but—” Gabriel faltered. “Listen, I need the shiny, okay? All of it. Can you get it for me, please?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes, yes. You wait.” He scurried away, bounding over the crossbow and scaling the hovel’s crumbling plaster wall with alarming dexterity before disappearing through a hole in the ceiling.</span></p>
<p><span>While he was gone Clay took a moment to survey the kobolds’ dingy quarters. He made his way toward the back, picking his way carefully around piles of rubbish. He saw a rusted brazier topped by a charred metal grille that served double duty as both a cooking appliance and a heat source. There were two tin buckets, one for discarded bones and offal, and a second whose contents made the first bucket look appetizing by comparison. A scrap of breeze-blown rag served as a curtain for what was either a window or a sizable hole in the wall.</span></p>
<p><span>He looked again at the nests crowding one corner. They were made primarily of straw and cloth scraps, but each had been decorated by its occupant according to their taste. Oddly, one of them was festooned with bent knives and broken arrow shafts. When Clay knelt to examine it, one of Fender’s so-called chittens yelped and leapt inside it, then bared its teeth at Clay and hissed.</span></p>
<p><span>“His name is Shortknife,” said Gabriel. “He’s a bit … strange.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay stood and backed off slowly. “You know their names?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel nodded. “That’s Cowlick, Boneriddle, Sharptongue,” he pointed each out as he named them, and then glanced down at the one nuzzling his leg. “And this is Shyeye.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Since when are you on a first-name basis with bloody kobolds?” asked Matrick.</span></p>
<p><span>“And why trust one with your shin—” Clay caught himself before the word</span> <em>shiny</em><span> left his mouth, but barely. “With holding on to coin?” he finished.</span></p>
<p><span>“You’ve seen kobold lairs,” said Gabriel. “They hoard any- and everything that glitters, and they never spend it.”</span></p>
<p><em>True enough</em><span>, Clay had to admit. Kobolds might be filthy, but most were filthy rich. The concept of coins as currency was utterly lost on them. If something didn’t shine, gleam, or sparkle, then it held little value outside of bartering for something that did. You could trade a brass ring to a kobold in exchange for a healthy horse and the kobold would think it came out on top.</span></p>
<p><span>“I met Fender a few years back,” Gabriel explained. “I had a gig to drive a clan of urskin from part of the sewer, and there turned out to be more of them than my employer let on. A lot more. Fender and Oozilk hid me for a while. They even helped cure me of a poison the frogmen used on their arrows.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Oozilk?” Moog asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“His wife,” said Gabriel, and then cast around as if only now realizing she wasn’t there.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay heard a thud overhead. Bits of plaster and chips of rotted wood rained down. Followed by the sound of something heavy being dragged across the floor above them.</span></p>
<p><span>“Anyway, I solved their urskin problem, and then vouched for them when they made the move from sewer to city, so I guess you could say we trust one another. Before heading out for Coverdale I left everything I’d earned these past few years with Fender.”</span></p>
<p><span>Everything he’d earned came plummeting through the hole in the roof, thankfully contained in a tied-off sack that landed with a heavily clinking thump. Fender came down after it, dangling by his claws for a moment before dropping lightly onto the sack. He sprang off it, and dragged it with two hands across the grimy floor. The chitten named Shortknife watched it greedily, the way a human child might watch an elaborate dessert paraded out after supper.</span></p>
<p><span>“Shiny here,” Fender grumbled, abandoning his burden at Gabriel’s feet.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe found half a smile somewhere. “Thank you, Fender. Hey, where is Oozilk?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Not here,” the kobold said quickly. “Gone.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Gone?” And there went the half smile. “Gone where?”</span></p>
<p><span>Fender made a groaning sound that reminded Clay of the one Griff made whenever Clay ordered the little dog off the bed. The kobold’s torch-bright eyes seemed to gutter when he spoke next. “Oozilk get in fight-scrap at give-take.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Give-take?” asked Moog.</span></p>
<p><span>“The market,” said Gabriel distractedly. “She got in a fight at the market. Go on, Fender. When was this?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Ah, year back, year back. Oozilk tooth-bite merchant-man, merchant-man send club-goons, club-goons take Oozilk. Fender try and fight-scrap club-goons, but they make warning: Take Oozilk, or take chittens. So Oozilk gone.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Gone where?” Gabriel asked. “Where did they take her? Back to the sewer?”</span></p>
<p><span>“No sewer,” answered Fender, then pointed a crooked finger at the south wall, beyond which lay the sluggish river and the colossal arena floating upon it. “To noise-bowl.”</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>Clay was only half-surprised to see the carriage still waiting for them when he and his bandmates emerged from the alley. The driver looked just as relieved to see them, since his akra were growing restless. Both of them were bright red now, and whining like chicks awaiting the worm.</span></p>
<p><span>The ship on which the fight had broken out was on fire. Those on both sides of the clash had gathered on the quay to watch it burn.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick hauled his bulk into the carriage, nodding curtly as the driver returned his dagger. The king, somewhat creepily, kissed the blade before sheathing it. Moog climbed in after, and winced at some pain in the foot he was using for leverage.</span></p>
<p><em>The left one</em><span>, Clay noted.</span> <em>The infected one.</em></p>
<p><span>“You all right?” asked Matrick.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog still hadn’t worked up the courage to tell Matty about his affliction. “Fine!” said the wizard a little too loudly. “Just not as spry as I used to be.”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick chuckled and put a hand on his stomach. “Fucking tell me about it. Hey Gabe, maybe give me a few months’ warning the next time you decide to drag my fat ass across the Heartwyld, eh? I’d have done a few laps around the castle, or maybe not eaten a pie every day.”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog looked doubtful. “You ate pie every day?”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick shrugged. “Damned right I did, or else what’s the point of being king?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel, meanwhile, was still standing at the alley mouth. At a glance, Clay assumed he was watching the ship in flames, but then realized he was looking past it, transfixed by the daunting immensity of the Maxithon.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gabe,” Clay called, and after a moment his friend tore his gaze from the arena and joined them in the carriage. Gabriel sat with the sack cradled in his lap, saying nothing. The quiet sullenness that seemed the dominant part of his nature these days had returned, and not without reason. Gabriel had vouched for Fender and his wife to move from the sewers into the slightly less foul-smelling streets above. He no doubt felt responsible for Oozilk’s capture. Her death (because Clay couldn’t imagine a kobold lasting long in the arena) would join the many burdens camped like crows on the frontman’s shoulders, from letting his band fall apart, to allowing his marriage to crumble, to driving his daughter to repeat the same reckless mistakes of her father.</span></p>
<p><span>The driver cracked the reins, urging his red-feathered akra on through the riotous streets of Coinbarrow, weaving through the press of drunks, scratch addicts, scratch dealers, off-duty courtsmen in six-striped tabards, and rowdy river men looking to exchange a few silver crowns for a strong drink, a keen woman, and an itchy red rash come morning.</span></p>
<p><span>The air itself was a wild brawl of smells and sounds: the punch of unwashed flesh, the scream of a scratching mandolin, the jab of tobacco smoke, the glee of a whistling pipe, the occasional head butt of sour urine, the aching sorrow of a moaning lute. All that, and voices singing, laughing, yelling, swearing, and groaning in myriad different ways.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay craned his neck as they rattled by one of the four square towers to which the Maxithon was anchored by the thickest chains he’d ever seen. Graffiti marred the tower’s base, most of it illegible, although Clay’s eyes picked out four words scrawled in bright white paint that stood out from all the rest:</span> <em>Long live the Duke</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>They veered right, rumbling uphill, and soon left Coinbarrow behind. As their unease abated, the akra’s feathers changed colour. One of them went white again, while the other turned a dusky blue. When Matrick ventured to ask the driver what the bird’s blue feathers denoted the man glanced over his shoulder and growled, “I’ll say this: Don’t bend over near it.”</span></p>
<p><span>They turned left onto the city’s main thoroughfare, a broad avenue called Sintra’s Ring that carved a circle through every ward in Fivecourt, and soon passed beneath a massive arch into the Narmeeri Ward. Carved in relief along the top of the ward gate were the words</span> <span class="small-caps">SUFFER NO TYRANTS</span><span>, the origin of which Moog used to explain every single time Saga had been to the city. Clay had never been much for history lessons—he had trouble remembering the words to most songs—but it was hard to forget one that had been drilled into your head five times a year for ten years running.</span></p>
<p><span>In the wake of the Reclamation Wars, when the last of the Hordes had been scattered, the Company of Kings had envisioned a unified Grandual: a single, spanning empire to rival the lost Dominion of druinkind. They promoted one among them to the rank of Emperor, and named Fivecourt the Imperial capital.</span></p>
<p><span>But hardly a year had passed—and the foundations had only just been laid for the Emperor’s grand palace—before the new Emperor issued two ill-fated edicts that historians unilaterally agree proved to be his undoing. The first of these was, as Moog colourfully phrased it whenever he told the story, “to tax the living shit out of his subjects.” The next was to demand that the firstborn daughter of every noble household be sent as a hostage to Fivecourt. Upon their arrival the Emperor announced their great good fortune of being the founding members of his brand-new harem.</span></p>
<p><span>The noble daughters responded poorly to this decree, and the first Emperor of Grandual died due to what Moog dubbed “testicular asphyxiation,” which is to say they stuffed his severed balls down his throat.</span></p>
<p><span>The daughters were executed, the nobles rebelled, and the Emperor’s son and heir fled west, through the Heartwyld and over the mountains, to Endland.</span></p>
<p><span>“Hey,” Moog blurted, startling everyone. “Have I ever told you guys why it says ‘Suffer no Tyrants’ above the ward gates?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“You have,” said Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>“Like a hundred million times,” said Matrick, and the wizard slumped back into his seat.</span></p>
<p><span>They’d entered the Narmeeri Ward, and but for the arena floating on the river below, Clay could have imagined the carriage had ambled into the southern sultanate itself. The streets here were cramped and curving; bands of pale moonlight filtered between swathes of red and gold cloth draped overhead. The driver wisely avoided the night market, but Clay could hear the babble of voices from the grand bazaar near the heart of the ward. The mingling scents of spice and heady hookah smoke wafted on an unseasonably warm breeze that contained a startling amount of gritty sand.</span></p>
<p><span>They rolled by several temples to the Summer Lord, who the southerners called Vizan and worshipped with a sort of reverent fear, the way everyone else did the Winter Queen, and finally passed through another gate into the highest tier of the city. Here were the estates belonging to Narmeeri grandees, and even a small palace occupied by the Sultana herself whenever she deigned to visit Fivecourt. Her salvaged druin skyship,</span> <em>The Second Sun</em><span>, was moored there now, its fanning sails crackling with static discharge.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay decided he’d let Gabriel sulk long enough. They were nearing their destination, he presumed, and yet he had no idea where exactly it was they were going, or why.</span></p>
<p><span>“What’s the money for?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel looked over, his blue eyes hooded, his jaw working as though he were chewing on something. Finally, he answered, “It’s for Ganelon.”</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick frowned, leaning forward. “When did he get out of prison? I was led to believe those sent to the Quarry were sent there to stay.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay, too, had been under that impression. He’d tried to ask Gabriel about it before Jain and the Silk Arrows had robbed them outside Coverdale.</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon had killed a Narmeeri prince, after all—the eldest son of the Sultana—and neither Saga’s celebrity status nor the fact that he’d committed murder for a very, very good reason could protect him from her wrath. The Sultana’s magi had hunted him down, and for reasons each their own, Ganelon’s bandmates had been conspicuously absent when he’d needed them most.</span></p>
<p><span>The warrior was eventually captured, confined to an inescapable prison known as the Quarry—inescapable because its inhabitants, which included a veritable who’s who of Grandual’s most dangerous criminals, were turned to stone. Clay had heard it said the Quarry was tended by Keepers, who were blinded at birth and raised to know every inch of the prison by touch alone, and guarded by basilisks, the gazes of which could turn exposed flesh to stone.</span></p>
<p><span>“He’s out of the Quarry,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“Is he a mercenary?” Moog wanted to know. “Did he go solo? I mean, I understand he may not like us much, but … Ganelon never really seemed that interested in getting paid, you know? It was always more about the … um …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Killing,” said Matrick helpfully.</span></p>
<p><span>“Well, basically, yeah. It just seems odd he’d refuse to help save Rose unless you paid him.”</span></p>
<p><span>“The money isn’t to pay Ganelon,” Gabriel said, his eyes still glued to the sack of coins on his lap. “It’s to set him free.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>