<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter010">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23750a" id="Ref_23750"><span>Chapter Ten</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23750a"><span><em>Through the Looking Glass</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>“Listen, you don’t—” Clay faltered. “If you—” and faltered again. “What? No. Just … no,” he repeated, like an idiot.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel looked dumbfounded, like a man who’d found himself stuck on the pointy end of a centaur’s lance.</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard, meanwhile, lifted his left foot and removed his slipper, so that Clay could see the black crust sheathing his two smallest toes. “Don’t worry,” he assured them, “it’s not contagious. There’s only one way to get the Heathen’s Touch, and that’s to be cracked enough to spend time in the forest.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay considered a number of responses, many of which involved calling Moog a bloody fucking fool, but then he tossed them aside and settled on “Why?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Why put myself in danger?” Moog asked, replacing his slipper and sitting up in his chair. “Because I needed specimens, like Turing, who were actually infected. I needed to see what didn’t work at all, and what almost worked, and then figure out how come.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Why not ask”—</span><em>rotters</em><span>, he’d almost said—“people who are already infected? We saw one in Conthas.”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard shrugged his bony shoulders. “I couldn’t afford to feed them. And besides, with people … there’s too many emotions involved. Theirs and mine. I mean, you see how upset I am over Turing, and he was a tree! He tried to strangle me in my sleep once, you know.” Moog smiled wistfully. “I’m going to miss that cheeky little bugger.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And what if there is no cure?” said Clay. “What if you’re wasting your time? What if you’ve thrown your life away for nothing?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard’s melancholy smile remained firmly in place. “Yes, well, what choice do I have? I’ve devoted nearly half my life in search of a cure for this damnable disease, and I’m no closer now than when I started. I’m not married, I have no children. You have a little girl, right?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I do, but—”</span></p>
<p><span>“You</span> <em>both</em><span> do,” said Moog. “And Matty’s got, what, five, six kids now?</span> <em>And</em><span> he’s the Glif-kissing king of Agria! And Ganelon … well, he’s frigging Ganelon, isn’t he? But me? What sort of legacy will I leave behind? I’ve got no family, no friends, except for you guys. What have I done that’s</span> <em>worth</em><span> anything?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Well …” Clay looked desperately at a crate stamped with Magic Moog’s winking visage.</span></p>
<p><span>“Ah, yes, I</span> <em>do</em><span> have erectile dysfunction by the throat!” He gave a derisive snort and curled his fingers around the imaginary neck of … well, Clay let that image slide right on out of mind. “No,” said Moog finally. “The rot has defined my life for so many years. It might as well define my death as well. Unless, of course, I find a cure. Now who wants hot chocolate?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay opened his mouth and closed it. They could be at this for hours, going round and round in the ruts carved out by earlier arguments, but he knew it was no use. Moog was stubborn as a bugbear on its birthday when he set his mind to something—this business with the rot was evidence of that—and had always dealt with grief in his own unusual way.</span></p>
<p><span>And besides, Gabriel had raised his hand. “I wouldn’t mind some,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog bounded to his feet. He poured water from an ewer into a brass kettle and hung it over the fire, then went to a cupboard and withdrew something wrapped in cloth that turned out to be a brick of black chocolate. “So what brings the two of you here?” he called over his shoulder. “Don’t tell me Matty invited you and not me to the Council of Courts?”</span></p>
<p><span>“The what of the what?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard pared off a slab of chocolate and used a mortar and pestle to grind it into powder. “Oh, it’s got something to do with that Horde laying siege to Castia. They say a druin’s the one who got all those monsters riled up in the first place. He arrived in Fivecourt a few weeks ago and demanded a meeting with the high and mighty of Grandual.”</span></p>
<p><span>“A druin?” Clay said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Where’s the meeting?” asked Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog looked from one to the other. “A druin, yes. He calls himself the Duke of Endland.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay used his tongue to ferret a tomato seed from between his two front teeth. “Since when does the Republic have dukes?”</span></p>
<p><span>“It doesn’t,” said Moog. “I doubt this druin has anything to do with the Republic. In fact, I’d say it’s clear he doesn’t like them very much. It’s possible the ‘duke’ thing is for the benefit of the courts. It’s a familiar title, regal enough to command their attention, but not as overtly pretentious as, say, Supreme God-Emperor of the City Formerly Known as Castia.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Fair enough,” Clay said with a shrug.</span></p>
<p><span>“Or maybe he’s just an asshole,” suggested Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“Maybe,” Moog agreed, chuckling. “As for the council, it’s being held right here in Agria.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And all of Grandual’s monarchs will be there?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard nodded. “Those who are able will no doubt attend, and those who aren’t will send emissaries in their stead. Whether or not he’s an actual duke, having a hundred thousand monsters at his command gives the fellow a fair bit of clout. That, and it’s not every day you see a real live druin.”</span></p>
<p><em>True enough</em><span>, thought Clay. He’d only seen a handful in his life, and they’d all been hiding out in the Heartwyld. Although the druins were rare enough to be considered harmless, they tended to steer clear of human populations, since most people tended to harbour a certain animosity for immortal beings who had once treated their kind as chattel.</span></p>
<p><span>It also didn’t help that scrubbing one’s scalp with a druin’s blood was said to cure baldness—this dubious fact alone made them fair game for bounty hunters the world over.</span></p>
<p><span>“Will the courts send an army, do you think?” Gabe sounded hopeful, and Clay, too, felt hope flutter in his gut. If the kings and queens of Grandual decided to send a professional army against the Heartwyld Horde, maybe he could go home after all.</span></p>
<p><em>Stow the thought, Cooper</em><span>, he told himself.</span> <em>How long will it take for a host that big to gather? How long to march that many men and women through the Heartwyld and over the mountains beyond? Months, at least. Half a year, maybe. And how long do you think Castia can hold out?</em></p>
<p><span>“Beats me,” said Moog, answering Clay’s unasked question along with Gabriel’s inquiry. “Agria and Cartea are at each other’s throats these days. The Narmeeri tend to keep to themselves, and the northerners hardly get along with one another, let alone the rival courts.” He spooned the chocolate powder into a pair of cups. “As for the Phantrans … well, they’ve got all of Grandual between them and the forest, and I hear the fishmen have started raiding their coasts.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You mean the saig?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard shrugged. “I think</span> <em>fishmen</em><span> sounds cooler.”</span></p>
<p><span>“It doesn’t,” Clay assured him.</span></p>
<p><span>When the kettle began whistling Moog crossed to retrieve it, then poured its scalding contents into each mug and began stirring. “You never answered the question, by the by. What brings you two to my humble tower?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay looked over at Gabriel, who was busy gazing up at the stars beyond the second floor.</span> <em>Guess this is up to me, then</em><span>, he thought with a sigh. “We’re headed to Castia.”</span></p>
<p><em>Tink-tink-tink …</em><span>The stirring spoon fell silent.</span></p>
<p><span>“What? Castia? Frigid Hells,</span> <em>why</em><span>? It’s about to be wiped</span><span> off the map by the biggest Horde on record since the Reclamation!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yeah, we know. Gabe’s daughter is inside.”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard’s face dropped. “Ah …”</span></p>
<p><span>“So we’re …” Clay swallowed.</span> <em>Just say it, Cooper.</em><span> “We’re getting the band back together. Or hoping to, anyway.” He lapsed into silence and waited for Moog to fill it with excuses. He had his phylactery business to think of, an elusive cure to find. Who would look after his animals? He was too tired, too old. He would rather die slowly over several years than trek across the black forest and get torn apart by monsters. Of all the reasons Moog might offer in his refusal, this last reason seemed the most likely. Clay certainly wouldn’t blame him for using it.</span></p>
<p><span>“Fantastic! Well, not the bit about Rose,” said the wizard. “That’s awful, Gabe. Just awful. But yes! Yes! Saga reunited? The old boys together again? Are you kidding me?”</span></p>
<p><span>“So … you’ll come with us?” Clay asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“Of course I’ll come! What kind of friend would I be otherwise?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay found himself baffled, recalling the emphatic</span> <em>no</em><span> he’d given Gabriel when he’d first come calling. “What about your research?”</span></p>
<p><span>“It’ll be here when I get back. This is Rosie we’re talking about! And besides, it’s not like I need to worry about catching the rot while we’re in the forest, right?” He glanced between Clay and Gabe, both of whom wore the same stricken expression. “Too soon?” he asked. “Too soon. Never mind. Anyway, I’m in!”</span></p>
<p><span>He strode over to Gabriel and offered up one of the mugs. Clay could smell the hot chocolate as it wafted past, and was beginning to regret not having raised his hand earlier.</span></p>
<p><span>“To Saga,” he said, clinking his cup against Gabriel’s. He was about to take his first sip when a heavy knock rattled the door and they heard Steve ask in his ring-hampered lisp, “Thtate your bithineth with my mathter.”</span></p>
<p><span>The rumble of low voices, and then a recognizable one spoke up. “Arcandius! Moog, you in there, pal? It’s Kal.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay and Gabriel shared a look of panicked terror.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog wheeled toward the door. “Kallorek? Hi! I’ll be right—”</span></p>
<p><span>Too late, Clay clapped a hand over the wizard’s mouth.</span></p>
<p><span>“We went to Kal to try and get Gabe’s sword back,” Clay said as quickly and quietly as he could. “He threatened to kill us instead.”</span></p>
<p><span>“You mean</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>? Why does Kallorek have</span> <em>Vellichor</em><span>?” Moog asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“We’ll explain later,” said Clay, when it looked like Gabriel was preparing to do so.</span></p>
<p><span>“You got company in there, Moog?” Kallorek’s voice was chummy as could be. “Our old friends Slowhand and Gabe, perhaps? How about you open up and we can all three of us talk things over, eh?”</span></p>
<p><span>Steve chimed in again. “Thir, would you pleath thtate your bithineth with my—” The door thundered as someone hit it with something heavy. The knocker’s customary politeness evaporated. “You punthed me!? You thon of a—”</span></p>
<p><span>Another thud shuddered the door, louder this time, and Steve went quiet.</span></p>
<p><span>“Moog?” Kallorek’s voice was losing affability like a wineskin with a hole punched in the bottom. “Open the door.”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard squirmed out of Clay’s grip and rushed to a nearby counter, where a crystal ball rested on a swathe of dark velvet. The orb contained nothing but grey-white fuzz, but when Moog set his mug aside and touched his fingers to the surface an image began to materialize within a swirl of purple smoke. An instant later the image faded, replaced by static fuzz.</span></p>
<p><span>“I bought this off the witch that lived here before me,” the wizard explained hurriedly, hitting the orb a few more times without success. “Damn thing doesn’t work half the time. I swear it’s enough to drive a man to</span> <em>read</em><span>.” He put his nose to the glass, muttering an incantation too quiet to hear. When that failed he swore and slapped the glass with his open palm. “Fucking piece of junk …”</span></p>
<p><span>The picture came suddenly clear, and Clay felt his gut curl up like a man pounced on by a bear. He saw Kallorek, dressed in scale armour beneath a cloak trimmed with black fur. He was surrounded by no less than sixteen armed guards. One of these, an especially big, brutish-looking bastard, was lurking just outside the door with a torch in one hand and a heavy maul in the other. Of the brass knocker there remained only a mangled ruin.</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, poor Steve,” Moog whimpered. “When did Kal get so</span> <em>mean</em><span>?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay suspected the booker had bullied the midwife that pulled him from the womb, but there wasn’t time to speculate now. “We need to get out of here,” he said. “Is there a back door? An escape tunnel?” He looked around, seeing evidence of neither. “Any way of getting out of here?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard thought for a moment, and then slowly began to nod. “There is a way. It’s risky, though.”</span></p>
<p><em>It’s risky.</em><span> Clay could remember Moog saying those words half a hundred times. More often than not they’d preceded some sort of wild debacle, but occasionally the wizard came up with something truly miraculous.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay blew out a sigh. “Let’s hear it,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Go upstairs!” Moog pointed to what remained of the second storey. “I just need to grab some stuff first.” The first thing he went for was the crystal ball, hastily wrapping it in velvet cloth before dropping it into a bag. Next he collected a number of vials, tossing them into the sack without regard for whether or not they might break. “Go!” he urged them. “I’ll be right behind you.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay started for the stairs, Gabriel hot on his heels. When they gained the second floor he looked around frantically for a means of escape. The tower’s roof had crumbled away, and a carpet of bright stars glittered above them. By their light he saw a single bed against one wall, another bookshelf, a nightstand, and no way out at all. Even the windows were too high to reach.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel, meanwhile, was gazing up at the night sky in open-mouthed shock.</span></p>
<p><span>“What?” Clay asked. He glanced up, saw nothing out of the ordinary, and then asked Gabriel, “What is it? The sky? The stars?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Not stars,” Gabe whispered.</span></p>
<p><span>“What do you mean—?”</span></p>
<p><em>Not stars</em><span>, Clay grasped.</span> <em>Spiders</em><span>. Thousands upon thousands of faintly glowing spiders, a scuttling constellation spread across the firmament of an undetectable web. For a moment neither he nor Gabriel moved, each of them rooted where they stood by primal, paralyzing fear.</span></p>
<p><em>Would you look at us</em><span>, Clay thought scathingly.</span> <em>We, who might once have faced down a dragon and only stopped to ask how it preferred to get its ass kicked, baulking at glow-in-the-dark spiders!</em></p>
<p><span>A few of the critters came sliding down for a closer look. Clay did his best to ignore them, calling down the stairs behind him. “Moog!?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Coming!”</span></p>
<p><span>Peering onto the lower floor, he saw the wizard cramming a few last-minute items into his quite-obviously-enchanted bag: a staff, a wand, a rod, a dagger studded with gemstones, an onyx cat statue, half a dozen hats, a few books, a pipe, two bottles of brandy, a pair of ragged slippers—</span></p>
<p><span>There was a loud crunch, like the sound of a tree’s back snapping, and the door buckled inward.</span></p>
<p><span>At exactly the same time hundreds more spiders began descending to see what all the fuss was about. The effect was unnerving, since a part of Clay’s mind still thought the spiders were stars, and it was shrieking at him that the sky was falling. He supressed the urge to vomit for any number of reasons and yelled at the top of his lungs, “</span><em>Moog!</em><span>”</span></p>
<p><span>“On my way!” the wizard shouted. He’d been setting his menagerie of rot-infected animals free. As the dog-sized elephant went scampering toward the door, Moog, with a word and a gesture, set a fire beneath the largest glass crucible. He tossed a vial of red liquid inside before taking the stairs two at a time. When he gained the second floor and saw the horrified expression on Gabriel’s face the wizard looked up.</span></p>
<p><span>“Ah, you’ve spotted my pets!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Pets?” Gabe sounded incredulous. “Moog, they’re</span> <em>spiders</em><span>.”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard waved off his concern. “They’re harmless! Well, mostly harmless. One took a nip of me once and I turned invisible for a week. Remarkable, yes, but it was bloody hard to buy groceries! Anyway, they eat the bats.” He thrust his bag into Clay’s hands. “Hold this.”</span></p>
<p><span>Kneeling beside the bed, he reached beneath it and hauled out a mirror near as long as Clay was tall.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel pointed at the thing. “Is that—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes, it is,” Moog confirmed without waiting for Gabe to finish. “I just hope it still works!” He dipped a finger into it, as if testing the temperature of stew. Ripples spread from his touch, distorting the reflection of Clay and Gabriel peering down in concern.</span></p>
<p><span>The mirror had a twin, and both were enchanted, so that you could step into one and out of the other, no matter the distance between. The band had used them once before as a means to rescue Matrick’s wife, Lilith, who was then the princess of Agria. She’d been abducted on her eighteenth birthday by a suitor turned kidnapper—a minor lord hell-bent on becoming king. They’d accessed the mirror through the maid’s quarters and appeared in the royal bedchamber barely in time to stop the lord from robbing the young princess of her precious maidenhead.</span></p>
<p><span>A lucky thing, too, or she’d have been unable to offer it up to Matrick later that night.</span></p>
<p><span>The door to the tower gave in, smashed to splinters as Kallorek’s gang ploughed through, led by the brute with the maul.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog shook his head. “Shit, I thought—” There was a flash of light, and the crucible downstairs exploded in a cloud of bright orange smoke. The wizard waved frantically toward the mirror. “In! Get in!” he screamed.</span></p>
<p><span>“What was that?” Gabe asked, covering his mouth as the smoke roiled up to envelop them. It stung his eyes and filled their nostrils with a sickening sweetness, like fruit on the cusp of going bad.</span></p>
<p><span>“My phylactery! Go!” Moog shouted over a chorus of hacking coughs and glass-shattering chaos below.</span></p>
<p><span>Since no one else made a move, Clay did. He shook his head, cursed himself for a fool, and jumped into the mirror as though leaping to his death from a high cliff.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>