<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter048">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23864a" id="Ref_23864"><span>Chapter Forty-eight</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23864a"><span><em>The Maze of Stone and Fire</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>“Suicidal is right,” Ashe muttered. “I can’t believe we sent Matty into a dragon’s lair by himself.”</span></p>
<p><span>“I should have been the one to do it,” said Kit. “I’ve little to fear from a dragon, but Matrick—”</span></p>
<p><span>“—was once a thief,” Gabriel told them. “And a damned good one. If anyone can pull this off, he can.”</span></p>
<p><span>They’d entered Teragoth before sunrise this morning, giving Castia a wide berth and approaching the ancient ruins from the south. Edwick brought the</span> <em>Old Glory</em><span> in low, so as not to draw attention from the Horde. Kit had offered an unasked-for narration as they navigated the derelict city, elaborating on its former glory.</span></p>
<p><span>“There’s what’s left of the akra track. I won a fortune there once, and lost it all on a single bet.” He shook his head and pursed his bloodless lips. “I should have known a bird named</span> <em>Sure Thing</em><span> was too good to be true. And look, the scroll house! It had a roof once, and a lovely patio from which you could see the entire city. They served the most incredible brunch: poached basilisk eggs and toasted bread with brown butter preserve. No one does a good basilisk egg anymore,” he remarked sadly, and Clay heard Ganelon mutter under his breath:</span> <em>What the fuck is brunch?</em></p>
<p><span>They’d set the skyship down in what had once been a grand forum. Moog’s plan—Moog’s brilliant, desperate, utterly preposterous plan—required one of them to sneak into the old shrine to Tamarat, the apparent lair of the dragon Akatung. Matrick had volunteered, and so the rest of them sat aboard the</span> <em>Glory</em><span>, hoping against hope that their presence in the city remained unnoticed by Lastleaf or his Horde.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had been cautiously hopeful since the wizard had outlined his strategy the night before, but when the sun broke over the snow-mantled mountains he was offered his first glimpse—aside from what he’d seen in Moog’s crystal ball—of Castia itself, rising like a white shoal in the midst of a poisoned ocean just a few miles east.</span></p>
<p><span>And suddenly every breath was a sucking gasp, every heartbeat a hammer blow. A part of Clay’s mind begged him to turn away, to close his eyes, to look anywhere but at the writhing, crawling, clamouring monstrosity that was the Heartwyld Horde, but he could not.</span></p>
<p><span>Someone, probably Gabriel, had once told him that to be courageous you had to first know fear. As Clay saw it, he would need a reserve of courage in the hours to come that demanded more fear than he had ever known, and so he let the horror of what they were about to face wash over him, soak into him, clamp around his soul like an iron fist, and</span> <em>squeeze</em><span> …</span></p>
<p><span>“He’s been in there awhile,” observed Tiamax. The arachnian had painted himself for war. His entire body was black, save for the tips of each spindly limb, which were bloodred, and he’d painted a red hourglass on his abdomen. Clay wasn’t exactly sure why an hourglass should be frightening, but for some reason it was.</span></p>
<p><span>“I don’t think we’ve been spotted yet,” said Piglet, peering fearfully over the starboard rail.</span></p>
<p><em>So far, so good</em><span>, Clay thought.</span></p>
<p><span>But then Ashe pointed down a debris-littered side street. “Gnolls!” she hissed.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay squinted down the alley. A pack of humanoid hyenas were skulking in the shadow of a ruined wall.</span></p>
<p><span>“Barret, Tiamax, Piglet,” said Gabriel. “You three run them down. Ganelon and Ashe, circle round and head them off. The rest of us will stay and wait for Matrick.”</span></p>
<p><span>To Clay’s surprise Vanguard’s frontman didn’t blink an eye at taking orders from Gabe. He jumped over the rail and beckoned his bandmates to follow. “Let’s get this done. If these bonesuckers run off and warn their friends this whole plan goes to shit.”</span></p>
<p><span>Kit followed Ganelon and Ashe overboard. “I know the city,” he explained when it looked as if the southerner would order him back. “I can help make certain they don’t escape.”</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon nodded grudgingly and the three of them hurried off east.</span></p>
<p><span>One of the gnoll scavengers loosed a startled howl. Barret replied with his crossbow, cutting it short. He nodded at Edwick in the pilot’s seat and then squinted up at Gabriel. “Don’t go killing my bard.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe’s smile was stretched thin. “No promises,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret chuckled, then turned to the others. “Let’s roll!”</span></p>
<p><span>Tiamax went first, four of his six hands bearing some sort of weapon, one of which was a barbed javelin. He hurled it as he closed, impaling one of the scavengers, and then spun his abdomen toward the rest. A splash of white webbing burst from the spinnerets near his rear, trapping a few of the gnolls as surely as a net.</span></p>
<p><em>A sticky, super-gross net</em><span>, thought Clay. He wrinkled his nose, wincing as the stitches in his face pulled taut. Needless to say, he was beginning to understand Ashe’s reluctance to let the medic bed her, despite, as Tiamax himself had put it, the obvious benefit of having six hands.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret reloaded his crossbow on the run. He got one more shot off (the gnolls ensnared by webbing were easy prey) before he slung the weapon across his back and drew a pair of short axes from his belt. Piglet lumbered beside him wielding a square longshield and his father’s spiked flail. Clay might have wondered if the kid could hold his own, except he knew Barret, and Barret wouldn’t keep him around if Piglet were a liability, regardless of whether or not he was Hog’s boy.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel stirred restlessly, and Clay recognised in his friend the same urge he was trying to quell within himself: to jump out there and join the fight. The impulse wasn’t just mental, either. Clay’s heart was thrumming in his chest. His fingers twitched with the craving to feel</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>’s familiar weight, or a weapon’s heavy heft in his grasp, though</span> <em>that</em><span> wouldn’t be happening anytime soon—not while his arm was in a sling, anyway.</span></p>
<p><span>No doubt sensing their bloodlust, Moog shuffled over and crouched between them. “Pretty fat for a warrior, eh?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Huh?” He and Gabe expressed their confusion in unison.</span></p>
<p><span>“Elavis.” Moog indicated the statue in the centre of the shrine’s sunken plaza. It was in miraculously good repair, considering its age and the state of its immediate surroundings. Set upon on a plinth twice as tall as Clay, the ancient deity stood with his head bowed, one hand clasping the hilt of a huge broadsword planted between his feet, the other pointed east, presumably toward the heart of Dominion power. Also, as Moog had so keenly observed, he</span> <em>was</em><span> pretty fat.</span></p>
<p><span>“He was a hero of the Old Dominion. One of their greatest warriors, in fact.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay frowned up at the statue. “I thought humans were mostly servants back then.”</span></p>
<p><span>“They mostly were,” Moog confirmed. “But Elavis was an exception. He made his name by challenging the champions of rival Exarchs to single combat. He died without ever having lost a battle. Too young, alas.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Young?” asked Gabriel. “How did he die then?”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog scratched at one bushy eyebrow. “Well, you see how big he was. Apparently he broke through a latrine seat and drowned in the sewage below.”</span></p>
<p><em>A shitty way to go</em><span>, Clay was about to remark when a muffled shout echoed from beyond the recessed columns fronting the shrine. “Did you guys hear that?”</span></p>
<p><span>Edwick was cupping one ear. “It sounded like Matrick,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>More incomprehensible words drifted into the plaza. Gabriel slipped over the skyship’s low rail and moved a few paces ahead. Clay looked down the side street; gnoll corpses littered the ground, but there was no sign of Barret and the others.</span></p>
<p><span>“ … rt … ip!” came the voice from within the temple, still faint.</span></p>
<p><span>“That was Matty, no doubt,” said Moog. “But the words … Gabe, could you make out any of that?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel shook his head. “It sounded like—”</span></p>
<p><span>“‘Aren’t the shrimp’?” Moog guessed. “What the heck is he talking about? What shrimp?”</span></p>
<p><span>“‘Start the ship,’” Clay said under his breath.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick came bolting from the shadows between two columns. His legs were pumping furiously, and he was cradling something against his chest that looked like a white stone wheel. “Start the ship!” he shrieked. “Start the ship start the ship</span> <em>start the fuckin’ ship</em><span>!”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel spun. “Edwick—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Starting the ship!” yelled Edwick, already dashing toward his chair.</span></p>
<p><span>The entire front of the shrine exploded outward. Blocks of stone rained down on the plaza, bursting on impact into spinning shrapnel shards, and a dragon—a real live you-gotta-be-shitting-me</span> <em>dragon</em><span>—came roaring from the ruin.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>Akatung looked much as Clay remembered him: vast and malevolent, armoured in jet-black scales and bristling with enough horns and spines and spikes to hang every hat in the world. And what was more: he still looked fairly pissed about the</span> <em>You guys nearly killed me</em><span> thing from way back when, so that was probably bad.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick sprinted past the statue of Elavis.</span></p>
<p><span>The dragon burst through it without slowing.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick took the steps to the square three at a time.</span></p>
<p><span>The dragon was up them in a single stride.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick was halfway to the ship when a chunk of stone clipped his heel and sent him sprawling, huddled protectively around the relic in his arms.</span></p>
<p><span>“Stay here,” shouted Gabriel, and took off running.</span></p>
<p><span>The dragon lunged at Matrick. Its jaw hinged open like a snake’s, lips peeling back from a double row of razor fangs. Matrick was fumbling with something at his waist, but if he hoped to stop a dragon with a knife …</span></p>
<p><em>Not a knife</em><span>, Clay registered.</span> <em>Something else. A … horn?</em></p>
<p><span>The blast Matrick blew made no sound at all, but a plague of insects boiled out from inside—bees and beetles, wasps and weevils; grasshoppers, moths, crickets, cockroaches, horseflies, butterflies, dragonflies, and fireflies that glimmered like stars through a veil of pestilent cloud—straight into Akatung’s mouth. Its jaws snapped shut just short of the king. Its yellow eyes bulged, and then the dragon made a sound like a cat summoning a sticky hairball from the depths of its stomach.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe helped Matrick to stand and the two of them stumbled on as Akatung began coughing plumes of insects into the sky. When they’d climbed aboard, Gabriel took the white wheel from Matrick and offered it to Moog. “Is this it?”</span></p>
<p><span>The wizard took it reverently, a look of astonished wonder on his face. “This is it. This is Teragoth’s keystone! See this groove here? When you—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Moog.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Yes?”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel pointed. “</span><em>Dragon.</em><span>”</span></p>
<p><span>“Oh, yes, sorry. Plan B, then?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Will it work, do you think?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay looked from the wizard to Gabriel. “There’s a plan B?”</span></p>
<p><span>Moog nodded determinedly. “We have to try,” he said, before leaping over the opposite rail and taking off at a sprint toward the eastern gate.</span></p>
<p><span>“Where’s he going?”</span></p>
<p><span>“The Threshold,” said Gabriel. “Edwick, we need to keep that thing busy until he gets there.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Can do,” said the bard. “I’ll take us up—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Not up!” Gabe told him. “Not yet. We need to find the others first. Stay as close to the ground as you can.”</span></p>
<p><span>“But the dragon—”</span></p>
<p><span>“—will be the least of our problems if Lastleaf knows we’re here.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay turned to Matrick. “What’s plan B?”</span></p>
<p><span>“No idea,” said Matrick, still gasping for breath. “But it can’t be any worse than plan A.”</span></p>
<p><span>Akatung, meanwhile, had fixed them with a baleful glare. His eyes were roaring, hateful hearths. He bellowed something in the incomprehensible tongue of dragonkind that Clay assumed wasn’t a friendly greeting.</span></p>
<p><span>“We’d better move,” Gabe warned. “Now!”</span></p>
<p><span>Edwick sent the onyx orbs spinning. The dhow veered sideways as the dragon pounced. They plunged between its legs, but a tail swipe clipped the stern and rocked the</span> <em>Old Glory</em><span> onto her side. The skyship tipped like a riverboat hit by a tsunami, but Edwick managed to steer them straight. The engine frothed as they shot like an arrow down a branching avenue.</span></p>
<p><span>They soared over a pile of sloughing rubble, slipped beneath the arch of a towering waterway. Edwick dared a glance over his shoulder. “Is it following us?”</span></p>
<p><span>“I don’t—” Clay looked back in time to see the street behind them detonate. Three stories of stonework burst like a sundered dam as the dragon charged through on a tide of billowing dust. “Yes,” he answered. “Definitely yes.”</span></p>
<p><span>They swerved onto a narrow lane. The ship bounced between walls and the sail pulsed with static discharge. Akatung came skidding around the corner. He shouldered through leaning pillars and stooping pediments as though they were drunks at the pub.</span></p>
<p><span>Another turn saw them speeding down a wide thoroughfare divided by massive plinths displaying a succession of sandaled feet. The statues to whom those feet belonged lay toppled to either side. The skyship swooped between them, left and right. Matrick snorted to himself, watching with amusement as Moog’s owlbear cubs slid and scampered from one side of the deck to the other.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay risked poking his head over the rail. Akatung was gaining fast, loping like a dog on all fours, heedless of anything in his path. He saw the barbed fins on either side of the dragon’s head flare open. “Turn!” he yelled at Edwick’s back.</span></p>
<p><span>“Why?”</span></p>
<p><span>“</span><em>Turn!</em><span>”</span></p>
<p><span>They cut right as bright blue fire flooded the street behind them. The bard made a left next, hoping to throw off the pursuit. It appeared to have worked, so when Gabriel spotted Barret and his crew in an alley half a block over they doubled back, halting just as Tiamax cut the head from a gnoll with clashing swords.</span></p>
<p><span>“Get in!” Gabe shouted.</span></p>
<p><span>Barret was cranking the winch on his crossbow. “There’s more of them!” He pointed at a gang of gnolls fleeing down the alley, but then Akatung’s head appeared in the street beyond. There was a sound like ten thousand matches being struck at once, and the gnolls evaporated in a cone of blue-white flame.</span></p>
<p><span>“Never mind!” hollered Barret. He tossed his crossbow and scrambled inside. Tiamax gave Piglet a push up over the rail and leapt in after him. The dragon’s breath funneled toward them, near enough that Clay could hear the howls it carried and feel the heat sear his face like a brand, but Edwick was already palming the orbs—they hurtled forward, weaving through a maze of tarnished splendour as fast as the</span> <em>Old Glory</em><span> could manage.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay found himself thankful that Kit wasn’t on board.</span> <em>There’s the art gallery</em><span>, he could imagine the ghoul droning on.</span> <em>And here was the most delectable little bakery. I’ll tell you one thing mankind has not improved upon in twelve hundred years: scones.</em></p>
<p><span>“I see Ashe!” Barret pointed over Edwick’s shoulder. She and Ganelon were pelting headlong down the avenue ahead. They were gaining fast on Kit, who had hiked his bedsheet robes to his knees and was shambling for all he was worth.</span></p>
<p><span>“Something’s after them,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><em>Not gnolls</em><span>, Clay thought.</span> <em>There’s no way Ganelon is running from gnolls.</em><span> He’d as likely see a wolf running from a flock of sheep.</span></p>
<p><span>His fears were confirmed as the</span> <em>Old Glory</em><span> cleared the ruins. Akatung was there, long neck extended, the fins alongside his head fanning like a bellows.</span></p>
<p><span>“Hold on!” yelled Edwick. He grappled both orbs and kicked the lever that powered the tidal engine—it shuddered off, and the dhow went slewing sideways, angled so that Ashe and Ganelon, who saw it careening toward them, could leap over the lowered rail. Kit got clipped midwaist, but the</span> <em>Glory</em><span> swallowed him anyway. Tiamax, who was already holding both owlbear cubs, managed to snatch the ghoul’s ankle before he rolled out the opposite side.</span></p>
<p><span>The skyship kept on spinning until the bard wrenched the lever again. Every hair on Clay’s body went rigid as the sail above him crackled with energy. The gyres roared to life, and the</span> <em>Glory</em><span> straightened out as a wave of blue-white fire splashed by them on the left.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel stepped over Kit on his way to the pilot’s chair. He put both hands on Edwick’s slim shoulders. “Can you get us to the Threshold?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>“I can try,” said Edwick, “but we’re too slow to outrun that thing!”</span></p>
<p><span>“Too slow …” Gabe turned to survey the deck, then threw a questioning glance at Barret.</span></p>
<p><span>The frontman sighed. “Gods damn it. Dump the furniture.”</span></p>
<p><span>Out went the couches, the chairs, the chests crammed with clothes and armour. Out went the mattresses, the barstools, the bar. Matrick himself tipped the booze cabinet over the rail, wincing as he heard it smash.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay caught Ganelon sizing up Piglet. “Hey,” he said, drawing the warrior’s attention, “no.”</span></p>
<p><span>Ganelon at least had the grace to look ashamed.</span></p>
<p><span>They were out of the city now, racing east above the broad Dominion highway. The Threshold was directly ahead, a soaring black arch that straddled the road. And beyond that, across a wide, flat stretch of devastated farmland … a sight almost beyond comprehension.</span></p>
<p><span>Castia, and the Heartwyld Horde.</span></p>
<p><span>There were a pair of giants striding among the monstrous multitudes, and a whole mess of creatures Clay had never seen or couldn’t discern from this far away. The sky above the city swarmed as well: plague hawks and long-necked wyverns turned lazy circles beyond reach of the city’s formidable defences. Harpies, rot sylphs, bloodshot eyewings, and countless other flying atrocities frolicked among smoke and cloud.</span></p>
<p><span>The Horde didn’t just fill the horizon—it</span> <em>was</em><span> the horizon. It was</span> <em>all there was to see</em><span>, and for a moment everyone on board the</span> <em>Old Glory</em><span> simply stared at it over the prow.</span></p>
<p><span>Nine hearts shared a scale with the leaden weight of fear, and even the stoutest watched the balance tip against them. And then Kit, whose heart weighed less than an orange rind, and whose head was sticking over the rail, called out, “The dragon—”</span></p>
<p><span>“I know!” yelled Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“It’s right behind us!”</span></p>
<p><span>Leaning out as far as he dared, Clay saw that Kit was right: Akatung was practically on top of them, so close that when the dragon roared Clay could smell the metallic char on its breath. He turned his face into the wind, and there was Moog, standing beside the Threshold, pushing the keystone into place.</span></p>
<p><span>“Where am I going?” hollered Edwick.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel’s eyes were fixed dead ahead. “Straight through.”</span></p>
<p><span>They sped below the empty arch, and in the split second they spent eye-to-eye Clay could have sworn he saw the wizard wink at him. Glancing back over the stern, Clay saw the dragon duck beneath the arch just as the space below it shimmered like the surface of a soap bubble.</span></p>
<p><span>And then Akatung disappeared.</span></p>
<p><span>The</span> <em>Old Glory</em><span> banked sharply. Clay could see, though not rationalize, a huge volume of water surging from the west-facing side of the Threshold. Moog was standing just wide of the torrent, frantically turning the keystone with both hands as though he were shutting off a valve—which, apparently, he was. The deluge ended as abruptly as it began.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay and a few of the others sighed heavily. Edwick was chuckling like a madman, and Gabriel, behind him, wore an expression of exhausted relief.</span></p>
<p><span>It was Matty who broke the spell of baffled silence with a joyous hoot. “Hells yes!” he bellowed. “Let’s hear it for plan B!”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>