<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="chapter016">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23768a" id="Ref_23768"><span>Chapter Sixteen</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23768a"><span><em>Snakes and Lions</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>Gabriel lagged well behind for several hours after the episode with the crystal ball, and shortly before evening they lost track of him entirely. Clay bid the others to stop and rest while he retraced their path. He found Gabe curled up among the tangled roots of a toppled maple, shaking and sobbing into his hands.</span></p>
<p><span>“She’s dead,” he moaned. “She’s dead, Clay. She’s dead.”</span></p>
<p><span>“No,” said Clay, willing a certitude he didn’t feel into his voice. He crouched, using one hand to steady himself when his knees protested. It had rained briefly this morning, and wet leaves plastered themselves to his knuckles. “Moog says she’s alive, or else we wouldn’t have seen …” His mind recoiled from the memory of what the orb had shown them. “She’s alive, Gabe. Right now. Your daughter is alive.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel looked up, his eyes red-rimmed. “But you</span> <em>saw</em><span>,” he said. There was an edge of accusation in his tone, as though he resented Clay’s persisting optimism. “You saw. Everyone in that city is dead. It’s only a matter of time. Even if the courts sent an army—which they won’t—it would be too late.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Which is why we need to keep moving,” Clay told him.</span></p>
<p><span>His friend began nodding, but his face crumpled as another wave of grief swept over the bulwark of his resolve. “But what can we do? Moog is dying of the rot! Matty couldn’t climb a flight of fucking stairs, and we expect him to walk a thousand miles? To cross the Heartwyld? To scale a mountain? Even if we</span> <em>do</em><span> reach Castia … even if we somehow get there in time … what chance do we stand?”</span></p>
<p><span>The words</span> <em>none at all</em><span> stood poised on Clay’s tongue like an actor ready to stride onstage, but he kept the curtain closed. “I don’t know,” he said finally. “I really don’t, Gabe. But then again, I don’t know how we did half the stuff we’ve done.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel wiped at his nose with a mud-soiled sleeve. “What do you mean? What stuff?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Coldfire Pass,” Clay said. “Hollow Hill. Castadar. How many hopeless battles have we fought?”</span></p>
<p><span>“A few …” Gabe admitted.</span></p>
<p><span>“And how many did we win?”</span></p>
<p><span>His friend considered that a moment. “All of them?”</span></p>
<p><span>“</span><em>All of them</em><span>,” Clay confirmed. “And yeah, sure, we’ve just been robbed by a gang of girls—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Twice,” said Gabriel.</span></p>
<p><span>“Twice, yes, well … we’re a bit rusty. Of course we are. But we’ve beaten the odds before, is what I’m trying to say. Remember Turnstone Keep? Three bands against five hundred bloodthirsty cannibals, and still we survived. We’ve killed how many gods-forsaken murlogs? How many orcs, and ogres, and shit-spawned warlocks bent on destroying the world? Frozen Hells, we killed a</span> <em>dragon</em><span> once.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe frowned. “You mean Akatung? I thought—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Okay, we</span> <em>almost</em><span> killed a dragon once. We definitely hurt him real bad. But he didn’t kill us, did he? We’re still here, still fighting. And Rose is fighting, too, but she’s desperate, and she needs our help. She needs</span> <em>you</em><span>, Gabe. If you don’t save her from Lastleaf and his fucking Horde, no one will.” He could see hope kindling inside Gabriel, and so offered the last log at his disposal to the flame. “We were giants once, remember? Kings of the Wyld.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe’s ghost had uttered those words to Clay on the night his old friend appeared on his doorstep, a prodding reminder of what they’d been. Of what they were daring to be again.</span></p>
<p><span>“Kings of the Wyld,” whispered Gabriel, and Clay saw the words catch fire in his eyes. “We were giants. We still are.” He exhaled a long, shuddering breath, and appeared to take in his surroundings for the first time: the wet earth, the fallen tree, the dripping eaves of the forest around them. When he spoke again there was a note of shame in his voice. “Thank you, Clay. Without you …”</span></p>
<p><span>“Don’t worry about it,” said Clay, and then shrugged, since it seemed the only appropriate thing to do.</span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>What remained of their journey to Fivecourt passed</span> <em>almost</em><span> without incident, at least until the clowns attacked.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay thought at first that they had come across a troupe of mummers rehearsing their act, but they were brandishing weapons and screaming bloody murder, which set off a few</span> <em>it’s an ambush</em><span> alarms right there. The face of the first man to reach him was painted white, with red stars over each eye and a broad, bloody grin smeared from ear to ear. Clay introduced that face to</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>’s with a sickening crunch, and the man dropped like a corpse cut loose from a tree.</span></p>
<p><span>He cast around, trying to number their assailants.</span> <em>Three, four, five</em><span>, he counted.</span> <em>Two swords, two clubs, one spear, and a bow.</em><span> An arrow zipped past his legs, whining like an iron-nosed mosquito.</span> <em>Two bows</em><span>, he silently corrected himself.</span> <em>Six clowns total. Or no, not clowns. Mercenaries. A band, maybe, or something like one.</em></p>
<p><span>He recalled Gabriel mentioning the rising trend of face paint among would-be warriors these days. It had sounded ridiculous at the time, and was no less so now that this bunch of idiots had come howling between the trees.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel, weaponless, dodged a club’s heavy swing and retreated toward Clay, while Moog sidestepped a sword’s thrust and ducked behind Matrick, whose attempt to reach his knives cross-handed was hampered by the bulge of his gut.</span></p>
<p><span>“To Hell with this, I’m the king of Agria!” Matty blurted, prompting Clay to wonder why they’d bothered to fake his death in the first place. “Surrender at once!”</span></p>
<p><span>The nearest merc sneered, revealing teeth the colour of rot</span><span>ted wood. “You don’t say? Well I’m Vail, the Son of Autumn!”</span> <span>he said mockingly, then pointed out a scrawny woman with stringy wet hair and even worse dental hygiene. “And that there’s my sister, the Spring Maiden. Say hi, Glif.”</span></p>
<p><span>The woman, who was most definitely</span> <em>not</em><span> Glif (and probably no maiden, either), growled like an animal and launched herself at Matrick, chopping at his head with a rusted sword. The king got a knife up just in time to deflect the blow, but she lashed out with a foot, striking his knee, driving him to the ground with an unkingly yelp.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay missed what happened next, as two more attackers closed on him. The first, a spearman, came in point first. Clay twisted, grasping the haft of the weapon and pulling hard. The spearman tripped, pitching onto his face.</span></p>
<p><span>“Got ’em,” said Gabe, landing a boot on the back of the man’s skull.</span></p>
<p><span>The second man’s hair was spiked like a flail and dyed bright blue. He swung his sword at Clay’s legs, but the blade bit harmlessly into</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>’s mottled flesh. The swordsman tried something similar to what had worked on Matty, throwing a punch over the rim of Clay’s shield, but Clay was ready. He caught the man’s fist on the meat of his palm and clenched. The swordsman blew a breath through gritted teeth, trying in vain to pull his hand free. Clay met his rictus grin with one of his own, and</span> <em>wrenched</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>His foe’s gasp became a squeal, then a curdling scream as the bones in his wrist gave way with a</span> <em>click</em><span>. Clay released his shattered hand and the swordsman stumbled away.</span></p>
<p><span>“You f—” he started to say, until an arrow sprouted in the side of his head.</span></p>
<p><span>Somewhere deeper into the forest a bowman swore. Clay ignored him, since the shooter would need a moment to reload, and faced up to his next assailant. This one wielded a heavy club spiked with nails. His face was painted red, with a gold moon carving down the bridge of his broad nose. He was built like a Kaskar berserker, and hollered like one as he charged, broadcasting an overhead swing that Clay swiftly decided not to be on the receiving end of.</span></p>
<p><span>He rushed forward, bowling himself shoulder first into the big man’s legs. It was a desperate move, and it half-worked: the giant came down, but he came down directly on top of Clay, crushing the breath out of him and pinning him to the forest floor.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay had a brief moment in which to assess how the rest of the battle was going. The so-called Spring Maiden was down, crying, clutching her stomach with blood-soaked fingers. The one who’d mockingly named himself Vail was still on his feet but retreating frantically now that Matrick had found his rhythm.</span> <em>Roxy</em><span> and</span> <em>Grace</em><span> took turns darting at the man’s face, and finally one landed a kiss. The merc yelled in pain, raising both hands to protect himself, and Matty went in low, opening a slice behind the poor man’s knee that left him sprawled and screaming in pain.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe took off at a sprint toward the other bowman. Moog was on his knees, rooting around in his bag for the gods-knew-what.</span></p>
<p><em>A wand that shoots fireballs would be nice</em><span>, Clay thought.</span> <em>Or one of those chain-lightning bolts. Anything but another dose of Magic Moog’s Magnificent Phallic Phylactery …</em></p>
<p><span>Someone—the giant on his back, presumably—pushed Clay’s face into the damp earth. He got a mouthful of dirt, and when he tried instinctively to breathe he got a lungful of it. He struggled to roll away, but the big man had him trapped like a fox in a snare. Or, more aptly, like a fox flattened beneath a huge fucking rock. Stars swirled across the black of his vision, and Clay felt the muscles in his legs start to spasm as he slipped toward shock.</span></p>
<p><span>And then suddenly, light. Blessedly, air.</span></p>
<p><span>The pressure on his back eased enough for Clay to lever himself up and drag his body free. He coughed once, and then vomited a short stream of mud onto the patchwork leaves below him. Rolling over, he saw Matrick standing behind the big man, whose expression had gone slack in death. The king’s knives were buried to the hilt on either side of the giant’s neck.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay spat out a mouthful of leaf and mud. “Thanks.”</span></p>
<p><span>“That was … intense,” said Matrick. He was smiling, but his voice quavered, and his hands were visibly trembling. How long had it been, Clay wondered, since the king of Agria had killed a man with those hands?</span></p>
<p><span>Clay was about to voice his agreement when movement behind the king drew his eye.</span></p>
<p><em>The archer</em><span>, he realized,</span> <em>angling for another shot</em><span>.</span></p>
<p><span>“Matty,</span> <em>down</em><span>!” he shouted, and the king dropped to his belly. Clay scrambled to his feet as the bowman drew, surged forward behind</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> as the arrow left the string in a blur. He felt the iron tip jolt his shield and was already reaching for it, yanking it out, spinning it round in his fingers. He found a grip, saw the bowman’s eyes widen as his arm whipped out and he hurled the arrow as hard as he could.</span></p>
<p><span>In almost every circumstance, Clay knew, throwing an arrow was an awful idea. He’d tried doing so only once before, years and years ago, but it hadn’t gone well—and so no one was more surprised than Clay when it sank halfway to the fletching in the archer’s throat.</span></p>
<p><span>Well, no one but the archer. The archer was</span> <em>almost certainly</em><span> more surprised than Clay.</span></p>
<p><span>He tried giving voice to his disbelief, but blood flooded his mouth, and he slumped to the earth, dead.</span></p>
<p><span>Matrick whistled from where he lay from the ground. “Did you just—”</span></p>
<p><span>“Stop!” they heard Gabriel cry. He was still chasing the second bowman, who had circled back toward the site of the ambush. As the gap closed between them, the mercenary abandoned his bow and wheeled on Gabe, drawing a curved Phantran cutlass from a sash at his waist.</span></p>
<p><span>“Stay back!” he wailed, brandishing the sword with both hands. “Stay back, or I’ll have your guts out!” He addressed the pair that had attacked Matrick earlier. “Get up, you feckless curs! I ain’t paying you to lay around whinging!”</span></p>
<p><span>The merc hamstrung by Matrick rose unsteadily and limped over to his boss, but the woman remained where she was. “Go fuck yourself,” she spat. “You ain’t paying me to get knifed up neither!”</span></p>
<p><span>The clown-faced man Clay had knocked out earlier had come round as well. He lurched groggily to his leader’s side, and the three men stood side by side, grunting and growling like cornered animals.</span></p>
<p><span>Gabe slowed, stopped, and raised his empty hands. “Listen, you don’t …” he squinted. “Wait. I know you from somewhere.”</span></p>
<p><span>The cutlass bearer flinched, averting his eyes. He was a round man—as round as Matrick—with a slick wisp of hair plastered across his otherwise bald head. Clay guessed that his features had originally been painted to resemble some sort of hunting cat, but sweat or rain had turned the black and orange stripes into a slick brown mess. Beneath that, however …</span></p>
<p><span>“Vail’s Rotten Breath,</span> <em>Raff Lackey</em><span>!? Is that you?” Clay took a step toward him, careful not to trip over the giant’s out-flung arm. Startled, the merc whirled, waving his sword like a child swatting at stalks of grass. “Woah, hey, Raff! It’s me, Clay Cooper.”</span></p>
<p><span>The merc scowled. “I know who the fuck you are, Slowhand. You look just the same as you always did, ’cept older.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And you look …” Clay found himself at a loss for words. It had been several decades since he’d laid eyes on Raff Lackey, who looked as though every one of those years had roughed him up something fierce. “You look older, too.”</span></p>
<p><span>Raff snorted, but said nothing.</span></p>
<p><span>“Hold up,” said Matrick. “If you knew who we were, why did you attack us?”</span></p>
<p><span>The old merc risked a quick glance at Gabriel. “Well … ya see …”</span></p>
<p><span>“The bounty,” Clay said.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog leapt to his feet, holding what looked like a silver flute. “Finally! Wait, what bounty?”</span></p>
<p><span>Old Raff looked abashedly from Clay to Gabriel. “Kallorek put a price on the two of you. Ten marks apiece, twenty-five for the pair.”</span></p>
<p><em>Ten lousy courtmarks</em><span>, Clay thought dismally. He’d owned cloaks that had cost more than ten marks. “How did you find us?” he asked.</span></p>
<p><span>Raff shrugged. “Kal said you were headed to Fivecourt, but you can’t claim a bounty inside the city, so we just sort of ranged around hoping to get lucky.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Well, you got lucky,” said Matrick. The woman on the ground moaned piteously and he frowned down at her. “In a manner of speaking.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel shifted, lowering his hands. “So you’re hunting people now, Raff? What’s wrong, monsters too scary for you? Surely there’s a few rot-ridden goblins somewhere you could put out of their misery.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay winced. Goblins would be a sore spot for the weathered mercenary. Raff Lackey’s old band, Viscera, had soared to fame when they’d managed to take down a firbolg within sight of Fivecourt’s walls. They were the muse of many bards for a time, but their fall from grace happened almost as swiftly.</span></p>
<p><span>Compelled by their newfound celebrity to take on more</span> <span>dangerous contracts, Viscera, whose victory against the firbolg</span> <span>had been more luck than skill, found themselves hopelessly outmatched. Tragan, Raff’s brother and bandmate, fell off a cliff while running from a direwolf, and their wizard was boiled alive by ogres. Rock bottom came shortly after, when Raff was taken prisoner by a clan of goblins he’d been hired to exterminate. The goblins stripped him, flayed him bloody, and marched him through the village of Rednettle in bizarre mockery of a tour parade.</span></p>
<p><span>“Go fuck yourself, Gabe.” Raff made a show of summoning a mouthful of phlegm and lobbing it in Gabriel’s general direction. “You’re looking a little tarnished yourself these days, golden boy.” An ugly smile crept onto his face. “Say, when you stopped in on Kallorek did you happen to meet his wife? She’s a rare beauty, I’m told, though a bit old for my tastes. Heard she’s got a real pretty daughter, though. And one with daddy issues, no less. Those are my favourite.”</span></p>
<p><span>Gabriel went rigid. His jaw bunched and his eyes flared like a horse scared shitless. Raff was trying to goad him, and doing a damn fine job of it. Clay himself supressed an urge to throttle the old merc senseless, even as his mind scrabbled for a way to steer their course clear of further violence. He’d come on this fool’s quest to rescue Rose, after all—not to murder men in the woods outside Fivecourt.</span></p>
<p><span>They outnumbered Raff and his remaining companions, but those three were armed, and if there was any lesson to be learned from Raff Lackey’s rise and fall, it was that even a shit fighter got lucky from time to time.</span></p>
<p><span>“Leave off, Raff,” said Clay. “You’ve got injured need seeing to. Dead to bury. Let us go our way, and we’ll put this whole bloody business behind us.”</span></p>
<p><span>“A brilliant idea!” said not-Glif from her place on the ground. The limping man looked hopeful as well. Whatever Clown-face was thinking was a mystery to Clay, since that crimson smile was a permanent fixture.</span></p>
<p><span>Their boss chuckled darkly. “An offer of mercy from Clay Cooper? You’ll forgive me if I doubt your sincerity, Slowhand. As my brother used to say: If it sounds like a sheep but looks like a lion, it’s probably a lion.”</span></p>
<p><span>“A real sage, your brother,” quipped Matrick. “Ran himself off a cliff, didn’t he?”</span></p>
<p><span>Raff sneered. “Laugh it up, Your Highness. I’m claiming that bounty, no doubt about it. You’ve spared me having to split it six ways, at least, so I’ll thank you for that.” He shifted his grip on the cutlass, and Clay could sense he was growing restless. “You lot aren’t as soft as I’d hoped you’d be, but I still count three swords to none.”</span></p>
<p><span>What Clay mistook for the mating cry of some forest creature turned out to be Moog’s quiet cackle. “I think not,” he said cryptically, and brought the silver flute to his lips. The instrument emitted an eerie hiss, a sound like a distant kettle boiling. Raff looked suddenly panicked, fearful of whatever magic the wizard had unleashed upon them. Gabriel took a careful step back, and Clay hefted</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span>, bracing himself for whatever came next.</span></p>
<p><span>What came next was the sigh of the wind through the trees, the song of birds warbling to one another, the whisper of a snake gliding over fallen leaves, and the snap of a twig as Matrick shifted uneasily from foot to foot.</span></p>
<p><span>Essentially, nothing happened.</span></p>
<p><span>Moog tried again, but the result was the same. Raff shared a perplexed look with his two companions. The wizard turned the flute around and tried blowing on the other end. He blew until he was red in the face.</span></p>
<p><span>Still nothing.</span></p>
<p><span>“Uh, Moog?” Clay ventured.</span></p>
<p><span>“Gods of Goblinkind!” the wizard cursed, causing Raff to twitch compulsively. “I bought this off a peddler in Conthas who swore by the Summer Lord’s beard it would turn swords into snakes. Or was it spears?” he wondered. “Shit, he might have said spears.” Moog scratched his bare scalp with a spindly finger, which drew Clay’s attention to the massive python descending from a branch just above the wizard’s head.</span></p>
<p><span>“Moog—” Clay repeated, but then something brushed against his boot and Clay, looking down, saw that the forest floor had become a carpet of writhing snakes.</span></p>
<p><span>At which point several things happened at once: Not-Glif screamed as the jaws of a bright green viper clamped down on her leg, Moog squealed as the python sprang like a bolt of scaled lightning to envelop his torso, and Matty ran to the wizard’s defense, hacking at the monstrous snake with both knives in an effort to free him.</span></p>
<p><span>Everyone else tried to kill one another.</span></p>
<p><span>Vail the limper went down first. Gabriel rushed him, caught his wrist when he tried to swing, grasped a handful of greasy hair, and pulled the man’s face into a rising knee.</span></p>
<p><span>Clown-face, eager to revenge himself upon Clay, yelled and rushed forward. The ground between them was a hazard of coiling reptiles; every stick and fallen branch was now slithering underfoot. The merc stumbled over a rising cobra and went down. The offended serpent flared its hood, staring the prone man in the face, and if he’d remained still the merc might have emerged unscathed. Instead, Clown-face began shouting, triggering a series of rapid-fire attacks that left him bloody faced and gasping for air.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay moved gingerly around his fallen aggressor, careful to avoid stepping on serpentine backs. He scanned the ground for a weapon, but the giant had collapsed on his nail-studded club, and Clown-face’s sword was still clutched in his flailing hand.</span></p>
<p><span>Sensing an opening, Raff raised his cutlass overhead and charged.</span></p>
<p><span>Clay acted on instinct. Afterward he would curse himself for a fool—and worse—but for the time being he stooped and snatched up the nearest weapon to hand. When his enemy’s sword came down Clay brought his shield across to knock it aside, then lunged in and thrust his arm forward. The snake in his fist lashed out, sinking venomous fangs into Raff Lackey’s exposed throat.</span></p>
<p><span>For a moment he and Raff were face-to-face. The reptile’s sinuous body was coiled tightly around Clay’s arm, and he could feel its jaws working, pumping deadly poison directly into Raff’s neck, which was already swelling, darkening from pink, to red, to sickening purple. Clay’s ears were filled with an awful clatter, produced, he realized numbly, by the rattle quivering on the serpent’s tail.</span></p>
<p><span>Raff gasped for a final breath, and used it to utter words that floated across the abysmal inches between him and Clay. “I’ll be waiting for ya, Cooper,” he gurgled, “along with all the rest.”</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>