<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="copyright">
<h1 class="copyright-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#toc-copyright">Copyright</a></h1>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are the product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events, locales, or persons, living or dead, is coincidental.</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>Copyright © 2017 by Nicholas Eames</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>Excerpt from The Band: Book Two copyright © 2017 by Nicholas Eames</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Excerpt from</span> <em>The Dragon Lords: Fool’s Gold</em><span> copyright © 2016 by Johnathan Wood</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Cover design by Lisa Marie Pompilio</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Cover illustration by Richard Anderson</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Cover copyright © 2017 by Hachette Book Group, Inc.</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Map by Tim Paul Illustration</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>Hachette Book Group supports the right to free expression and the value of copyright. The purpose of copyright is to encourage writers and artists to produce the creative works that enrich our culture.</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>The scanning, uploading, and distribution of this book without permission is  a theft of the author’s intellectual property. If you would like  permission to use material from the book (other than for review purposes),  please contact permissions@hbgusa.com. Thank you for your support  of the author’s rights.</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>Orbit</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Hachette Book Group</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>1290 Avenue of the Americas</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>New York, NY 10104</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span><a href="http://orbitbooks.net">orbitbooks.net</a></span></p>
<p class="copyright"><a href="http://www.orbitshortfiction.com">orbitshortfiction.com</a></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>First ebook edition: February 2017</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>Orbit is an imprint of Hachette Book Group.</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>The Orbit name and logo are trademarks of Little, Brown Book Group Limited.</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>The publisher is not responsible for websites (or their content)  that are not owned by the publisher.</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>The Hachette Speakers Bureau provides a wide range of authors for speaking events. To find out more, go to www.hachettespeakersbureau.com or call (866) 376-6591.</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>Names: Eames, Nicholas, author.</span></p> 
<p class="copyright"><span>Title: Kings of the wyld / Nicholas Eames.</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Description: First edition. | New York : Orbit, 2017. | Series: The band</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Identifiers: LCCN 2016038141| ISBN 9780316362474 (paperback) | ISBN 9781478946625 (audio book cd) | ISBN 9781478915355 (audio book downloadable)</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Subjects: LCSH: Mercenary troops—Fiction. | BISAC: FICTION / Fantasy / Epic. | FICTION / Action &amp; Adventure. | GSAFD: Fantasy fiction.</span></p>
<p class="copyright"><span>Classification: LCC PR9199.4.E15 K56 2017 | DDC 813/.6—dc23 LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2016038141</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>ISBN 978-0-316-36246-7</span></p>
<p class="copyright-space"><span>E3-20161122-JV-PC</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>