<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">
<head>
<title>Kings of the Wyld</title>
<link href="css/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="text/html; charset=utf-8" http-equiv="default-style"/>
<meta content="urn:uuid:926463a8-7b85-476e-b199-83ba903d947e" name="Adept.expected.resource"/>
</head>
<body>
<div class="galley-rw">
<section class="body-rw Chapter-rw" epub:type="bodymatter chapter" id="epilogue">
<h1 class="chapter-number"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23882a" id="Ref_23882"><span>Epilogue</span></a></h1>
<h1 class="chapter-title"><a href="toc.xhtml#Ref_23882a"><span><em>Home</em></span></a></h1>
<p class="noindent"><span>The following is an excerpt from</span> <em>The Same Old Song</em><span> by Kitagra the Undying, Court Bard to His August Majesty, Emperor Matrick of Castia, first of his name:</span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara1"><span><em>Should you wish to learn what became of those who survived the Battle for Castia, I suggest you visit either your local library or your favorite pub. What you find in the library might be closer to the truth, but what you hear in the pub will no doubt be the better story.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>If you insist on reading,</em></span> <span>Born in Fire: The Rise of the Watch</span><span> <em>is one of my favorites, as is</em></span><span> I, Jain</span><span>, <em>which details the exploits of the brigand turned world-renowned mercenary after she left the Silk Arrows and began her solo career.</em></span> <span>The Sound an Eagle Makes</span><span> <em>gives a good summary of the battle itself, although the simply titled Castia, written by Syd (son of Barret) is widely considered the most comprehensive account of that auspicious day.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>The members of Saga survived the battle miraculously unscathed. For all they endured during their journey to Castia, they incurred little but bruises during the rout of the Heartwyld Horde. It was, incidentally, the last time all five members of Saga would fight alongside one another.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>Matrick Skulldrummer remained behind in Castia. He spearheaded efforts to repair the city, and when it came time to appoint a new governing body (most of the old one having succumbed to the plague), the people of Castia decided it was high time they had an Emperor after all. There was a vote, and Matty won by a landslide. He gave up drinking for good and arranged a peaceful separation from his former wife, Queen Lilith of Agria. He invited his children to visit him in Castia, and it surprised no one but their mother when they opted to remain by their father’s side.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>I need tell no one what became of Arcandius Moog, as he is among the most well-known and celebrated scholars of our time. Of any time, for that matter. In the aftermath of Castia’s liberation, he paid another visit to the witchdoctor Taino. After months of study Moog returned to, and rebuilt, his tower east of Conthas, where he developed a drinkable cure for the rot.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>It is the firm belief of this humble revenant that Arcandius Moog is one of the few figures in all of history (aside, perhaps, from Clay Cooper) possessed of the moral fortitude to do what he did next.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>He gave the cure to everyone. For free.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>Moog never remarried, and though I suspect his involvement in one or two covert liaisons, it is clear to all that his heart belongs, even after so long, to his deceased husband, after which he named his miraculous potion: “Freddie’s Finest Curative Cordial.”</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>Ganelon bid farewell to the band and made his own way back to Grandual. We must conclude that somewhere along that fraught and forlorn path he decided that the world to which he’d returned to was not a place where he belonged, since his first stop east of the forest was the prison in which he’d spent a long, dark decade trapped in stone. The keepers warned him not to venture below, but those who tend the Quarry are pale, frail, and all but blind, so they sure as hell couldn’t stop him from doing so. He said to them, rather cryptically: “Wake me when she gets here,” and then descended, alone, to the lair of the Basilisk Broodmother, whose gaze renders living flesh to stone.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>Alas, Ganelon was sadly unaware that his coupling with Larkspur had produced a son. The boy is young, still, but I’m told he’s got a bit of an attitude.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>Gabriel’s story is invariably linked to that of his daughter, Rose. Their lives, along with those of her partner, Freecloud, have been the subject of numerous songs and stories, so I will spare you the details here.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>As for Clay Cooper … Two days after breaking the siege at Castia he stepped through the portal to Kaladar and walked home from there. He was accompanied most of the way by Jain and the Silk Arrows, and by Gabriel, with whom he had set out from Coverdale several months earlier.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>I was not present when Clay and Gabriel parted at last, but Jain claims it took place while the sun was setting. She watched their silhouettes from a distance as they shared a few laughs, shed a few tears, and finally embraced. Afterward, she says, Gabriel took Clay’s head in his hands and uttered something too quiet to hear, which one might assume was a heartfelt confession that he owed every happiness of his life thereafter to Clay and Clay alone.</em></span></p>
<p class="blockquote-firstpara"><span><em>To which, Jain tells us, Clay Cooper responded with a shrug.</em></span></p>
<p class="space-break"><span>On the long journey home Clay spotted several roadside plots that would be greatly improved by the presence of a modest two-storey inn. There would be a stable out back, he decided, and maybe a smithy, in case folk needed simple work done. Inside, sturdy round tables with plush leather seats, and a fireplace far from the stage for those who wished to sit and enjoy the fire’s warmth in relative peace and quiet.</span> <em>Blackheart</em><span> would be mounted above, and if anyone asked what an ugly, charred, chopped-up piece of wood was doing up there on the wall, well, Clay might just sidle out from behind the bar, kick up his feet, and tell them a tale or two.</span></p>
<p><span>By the time he reached town the sun had nearly set. His shadow stretched out behind him, as stoop shouldered and weary as the man it followed down the beaten track that passed for a thoroughfare in Coverdale.</span></p>
<p><span>“Clay?” The voice was familiar, the tone incredulous. “Clay Cooper?”</span></p>
<p><span>He looked up at Pip, who had stumbled out of the King’s Head with his helmet tucked under one arm. “I’ve been called worse,” Clay said.</span></p>
<p><span>“Ha!” Pip attempted to slap his knee and got most of it. “‘Called worse,’ he says. Classic! Hey, when did you get home?”</span></p>
<p><em>I’m not home yet</em><span>, Clay thought. “Just now,” he said. “All’s well, I hope?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Better than well, I’d say. You hear about Castia?”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay couldn’t help but grin. “I did, yeah.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Wild, eh? By the Holy Tetrea I wish I’d been there!”</span></p>
<p><span>Pip was young, and had likely never ventured any farther afield than Conthas, or maybe Oddsford, and so Clay forgave the boy for saying something so incredibly stupid. “They ever catch that centaur out by Tassel’s farm?” he asked, changing the subject.</span></p>
<p><span>“Catch him?” Pip scoffed. “You mean you haven’t heard?” When Clay shook his head, the lad went on: “Your girl killed it!”</span></p>
<p><span>“My …” Clay faltered, since his mouth had begun speaking while his brain was still trying to make sense of what he’d just been told. “You mean Ginny?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Not Ginny, no,” said Pip. “Ginny was pissed as Glif!”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay grabbed the boy by the shoulders, perhaps a bit more roughly than he’d meant to. “I need you to tell me what happened, Pip. Right now.”</span></p>
<p><span>Pip blew a sigh that reeked of stale beer. “Well, that bastard—the centaur, I mean—chased Karl—that’s Ryk Yarsson’s oldest boy—out of the woods and down to that marsh by your place. Your girl saw ’em coming, I guess. Tripped it up with a stick or something. Broke its neck. Crack!” he added, in case Clay needed reminding what a breaking neck sounded like.</span></p>
<p><span>“You’re telling me that Tally …</span><em>my Tally</em><span> … killed a centaur?”</span></p>
<p><span>“She killed a centaur!” Pip said. “You’ve got a little merc on your hands there, Cooper.”</span></p>
<p><span>This time Clay’s mouth and mind replied as one. “</span><em>No fucking way</em><span>,” he said.</span></p>
<p><span>Pip laughed. “And what’s more, young Karl’s been on her like a wasp on a sweetcake ever since. Barely leaves her side, that one, and she seems to like it that way. Poor boy’s fallen hard, I think.”</span></p>
<p><em>He doesn’t know hard</em><span>, thought Clay. He pried his fingers from Pip’s sleeve and forced a smile onto his face. “Good seeing you, Pip.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Good to see you, too,” Pip slurred. “I’m glad you’re home.”</span></p>
<p><span>Clay set out for the west gate.</span> <em>I’m not home</em><span>, he told himself.</span> <em>Not yet.</em></p>
<p><span>He stopped to relieve himself on the road outside of town. It was true dark now. The stars above were incomprehensibly numerous, and so much brighter than Clay remembered. He craned his neck to look up at them, and despite everything he’d accomplished since seeing them last, he</span> <em>still</em><span> felt beggared by comparison. It occurred to him that this would always be the case, and Clay decided he preferred it that way.</span></p>
<p><span>He walked on, listening to the crickets chirping in the grass, to the wind rustling through the trees, taking long, deep breaths of the chill night air.</span></p>
<p><span>And then he saw her, shadow black against the warm light spilling from the open door. It seemed an impossible distance to the end of his lane, an immeasurable stretch from the edge of his yard to the stoop upon which his wife sat waiting for him. She didn’t actually see him until he was a few yards out and Griff came hurtling from inside the house, yapping and scampering madly around Clay’s feet. He knelt to pet him while Ginny stood, crossed her arms, and lifted her chin in that rural-imperious way of hers.</span></p>
<p><span>“You’re alive,” she said.</span></p>
<p><span>“I’m alive.”</span></p>
<p><span>“And Rose?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Safe and sound.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Good.”</span></p>
<p><span>“Tally?”</span></p>
<p><span>“Fine. Asleep. You heard about the centaur?”</span></p>
<p><span>He nodded. “I heard.”</span></p>
<p><span>Her back got a bit more rigid then. Her chin climbed higher still. “That girl doesn’t pick up a sword, Clay. Ever. Do you understand me?”</span></p>
<p><span>“No swords,” he assured her. “No axes, or knives, or bows. Not even a sharp stick, I promise.”</span></p>
<p><span>That got the chuckle he was looking for. Clay took a step into the light and heard her breath catch.</span></p>
<p><span>“Your face …”</span></p>
<p><span>He stopped to graze a finger over his latest scar. “Yeah, well. I guess that makes you the pretty one now.”</span></p>
<p><span>She laughed, and Clay could have wept for the sound of it.</span></p>
<p><span>Ginny reached out to him, and Clay stepped into the circle of her arms like a pilgrim come, at the end of his days, to the last house of the holy. Her scent surrounded him. A loose strand of her hair tickled his nose and gods-be-damned if he was going to scratch it now. Her breath was warm and soft as summer wind on his neck as she whispered, “You’re home.”</span></p>
<p><span>And finally, he was.</span></p>
</section>
</div>
</body>
</html>