<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html lang="en-US" xml:lang="en-US" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
		<title>Continued, The Divine Cities Trilogy: City of Stairs, City of Blades, and City of Miracles, with an excerpt from Foundryside</title>
		<meta charset="utf-8"/>
		<link href="../Styles/style0001.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/style0002.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../Styles/style0005.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head><body style="font-family:georgia,palatino,baskerville,'times new roman',serif;">
		<a id="d1-d1e596"></a>
		<div class="page_top_padding">
			<span id="page_i" epub:type="pagebreak" title="i"></span>
			<h1 class="para-fst-fs-pg">PRAISE FOR ROBERT JACKSON BENNETT’S</h1>
			<h1 class="para-fst">City of Stairs</h1>
			<span id="page_ii" epub:type="pagebreak" title="ii"></span><div>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“A memorably surreal urbanscape….Readers seeking a truly refreshing fantasy milieu should travel to Bulikov, and welcome its conquest.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—<i class="char-i">New York Times Book Review</i></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“A delightful urban fantasy that travels through a city full of Escher-like staircases and alternate realities….A diverse and entertaining cast of old gods fleshes out the ruins of this mysterious city, and Shara’s hit-man secretary delivers nonstop action.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—<i class="char-i">Washington Post</i></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“Entertaining yet thought-provoking….Entrancing characters, exciting descriptions and piercingly clear action keep the story moving swiftly and surely to a satisfying conclusion.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—<i class="char-i">Seattle Times</i></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“[An] incredible journey through a wondrously weird and surprising world….I found myself both delighted and fascinated as every layer was slowly unpacked. Just the right mix of awesome.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—<a href="http://Tor.com">Tor.com</a></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“Suddenly, the pages are whipping by, fifty at a clip as mysteries are uncovered, miracles happen and assassins begin scaling the walls….Bennett is plainly a writer in love with the world he has built—and with good cause. It’s a <i class="char-i">great</i> world, original and unique, with a scent and a texture, a sense of deep, bloody history, and a naturally blended magic living in the stones.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—<a href="http://NPR.org">NPR.org</a></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf-alt">“Robert Jackson Bennett deserves a huge audience. This is the book that will earn it for him. A story that draws you in, brilliant world building, and oh my God, Sigrud. You guys are going to love Sigrud.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—Brent Weeks, <i class="char-i">New York Times</i> bestselling author of <i class="char-i">The Way of Shadows</i></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“Smart and sardonic, with wry echoes from classic tales mixed up in an inventive, winning narrative. [Bennett is] a master of the genre.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—<i class="char-i">Kirkus</i></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“An excellent spy story wrapped in a vivid imaginary world.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—<i class="char-i">Library Journal</i> (starred)</p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“A rich, layered, thoughtful story, full of gods and magic and characters that feel unflinchingly <i class="char-i">true</i>….Every once in a while I read a book that’s so well done, I find myself wanting to punch the author in the face out of pure envy. Congratulations, Mr. Bennett—you just made the face-punching list!”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—Jim C. Hines, Hugo Award–winning author of <i class="char-i">Libriomancer</i></p>
				<p class="para-fsqf">“Alien and human at the same time, Bennett’s world is engrossing and fascinating. The pacing kept me reading far later than was healthy.”</p>
				<p class="para-fsqs">—Mur Lafferty, Campbell Award–winning author of <i class="char-i">Playing for Keeps</i></p>
			</div>
		</div>
	</body></html>